docs/docs/tutorials.md, before:

---
id: tutorials
title: Tutorials and Explainers
---

> These tutorials are contributed by the community. Unless otherwise indicated, tutorials are hosted on this site. External and video based tutorials are denoted with the appropriate icons.
>
> **New submissions and edits are welcome!**

## Basics

#### [Introduction to NextAuth.js](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=npZsJxWntJM) <svg role="img" viewBox="0 0 24 24" height="24" width="24" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><title>YouTube</title><path fill="#ff0000" d="M23.498 6.186a3.016 3.016 0 0 0-2.122-2.136C19.505 3.545 12 3.545 12 3.545s-7.505 0-9.377.505A3.017 3.017 0 0 0 .502 6.186C0 8.07 0 12 0 12s0 3.93.502 5.814a3.016 3.016 0 0 0 2.122 2.136c1.871.505 9.376.505 9.376.505s7.505 0 9.377-.505a3.015 3.015 0 0 0 2.122-2.136C24 15.93 24 12 24 12s0-3.93-.502-5.814zM9.545 15.568V8.432L15.818 12l-6.273 3.568z"/></svg>

- This is an introductory video to NextAuth.js for beginners. In this video, it is explained how to set up authentication in a few easy steps and add different configurations to make it more robust and secure.

#### [Adding Authentication to an existing Next.js Application in no time!](https://dev.to/ndom91/adding-authentication-to-an-existing-serverless-next-js-app-in-no-time-with-nextauth-js-192h) <svg style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} width="30" height="25" viewBox="0 0 50 40" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><rect width="50" height="40" rx="3" style={{ fill: '#000' }}></rect><path d="M19.099 23.508c0 1.31-.423 2.388-1.27 3.234-.838.839-1.942 1.258-3.312 1.258h-4.403V12.277h4.492c1.31 0 2.385.423 3.224 1.27.846.838 1.269 1.912 1.269 3.223v6.738zm-2.808 0V16.77c0-.562-.187-.981-.562-1.258-.374-.285-.748-.427-1.122-.427h-1.685v10.107h1.684c.375 0 .75-.138 1.123-.415.375-.285.562-.708.562-1.27zM28.185 28h-5.896c-.562 0-1.03-.187-1.404-.561-.375-.375-.562-.843-.562-1.404V14.243c0-.562.187-1.03.562-1.404.374-.375.842-.562 1.404-.562h5.896v2.808H23.13v3.65h3.088v2.808h-3.088v3.65h5.054V28zm7.12 0c-.936 0-1.684-.655-2.246-1.965l-3.65-13.758h3.089l2.807 10.804 2.808-10.804H41.2l-3.65 13.758C36.99 27.345 36.241 28 35.305 28z" style={{ fill: '#fff' }}></path></svg>

- This tutorial walks one through adding NextAuth.js to an existing project. Including setting up the OAuth client id and secret, adding the API routes for authentication, protecting pages and API routes behind that authentication, etc.

#### [How to Authenticate Next.js Apps with Twitter & NextAuth.js](https://spacejelly.dev/posts/how-to-authenticate-next-js-apps-with-twitter-nextauth-js/) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- Learn how to add Twitter authentication and login to a Next.js app both clientside and serverside with NextAuth.js.

#### [NextJS Authentication Crash Course with NextAuth.js](https://youtu.be/o_wZIVmWteQ) <svg role="img" viewBox="0 0 24 24" height="24" width="24" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><title>YouTube</title><path fill="#ff0000" d="M23.498 6.186a3.016 3.016 0 0 0-2.122-2.136C19.505 3.545 12 3.545 12 3.545s-7.505 0-9.377.505A3.017 3.017 0 0 0 .502 6.186C0 8.07 0 12 0 12s0 3.93.502 5.814a3.016 3.016 0 0 0 2.122 2.136c1.871.505 9.376.505 9.376.505s7.505 0 9.377-.505a3.015 3.015 0 0 0 2.122-2.136C24 15.93 24 12 24 12s0-3.93-.502-5.814zM9.545 15.568V8.432L15.818 12l-6.273 3.568z"/></svg>

- This tutorial dives into the ins and outs of NextAuth, including using the Email, Github, Twitter and Auth0 providers in under an hour.

#### [Create your own NextAuth.js Login Pages](https://youtu.be/kB6YNYZ63fw) <svg role="img" viewBox="0 0 24 24" height="24" width="24" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><title>YouTube</title><path fill="#ff0000" d="M23.498 6.186a3.016 3.016 0 0 0-2.122-2.136C19.505 3.545 12 3.545 12 3.545s-7.505 0-9.377.505A3.017 3.017 0 0 0 .502 6.186C0 8.07 0 12 0 12s0 3.93.502 5.814a3.016 3.016 0 0 0 2.122 2.136c1.871.505 9.376.505 9.376.505s7.505 0 9.377-.505a3.015 3.015 0 0 0 2.122-2.136C24 15.93 24 12 24 12s0-3.93-.502-5.814zM9.545 15.568V8.432L15.818 12l-6.273 3.568z"/></svg>

- This tutorial shows you how to jump in and create your own custom login pages versus using the ones provided by NextAuth.js

#### [Passwordless Authentication with next-auth](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GPBD3acOx_M) <svg role="img" viewBox="0 0 24 24" height="24" width="24" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><title>YouTube</title><path fill="#ff0000" d="M23.498 6.186a3.016 3.016 0 0 0-2.122-2.136C19.505 3.545 12 3.545 12 3.545s-7.505 0-9.377.505A3.017 3.017 0 0 0 .502 6.186C0 8.07 0 12 0 12s0 3.93.502 5.814a3.016 3.016 0 0 0 2.122 2.136c1.871.505 9.376.505 9.376.505s7.505 0 9.377-.505a3.015 3.015 0 0 0 2.122-2.136C24 15.93 24 12 24 12s0-3.93-.502-5.814zM9.545 15.568V8.432L15.818 12l-6.273 3.568z"/></svg>

- A video tutorial by Xiaoru Li from Prisma.

#### [How to authenticate Next.js Apps with Sign-In With Ethereum (SIWE) & NextAuth.js](https://docs.login.xyz/integrations/nextauth.js) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- Learn how to use Sign-In With Ethereum to authenticate your users with their existing Ethereum wallets - identifiers they personally control.
- Example application: [spruceid/siwe-next-auth-example](https://github.com/spruceid/siwe-next-auth-example)

#### [Next.js Authentication with Okta and NextAuth.js 4.0](https://thetombomb.com/posts/nextjs-nextauth-okta) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- Learn how to perform authentication with an OIDC Application in Okta and NextAuth.js.

## Fullstack

#### [Magic Link Authentication in Next.js with NextAuth and Fauna](https://alterclass.io/tutorials/magic-link-authentication-in-nextjs-with-nextauth-and-fauna) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

Learn how to implement passwordless/magic link authentication with database storage in your Next.js projects using NextAuth and Fauna DB.

> The final version of the project's code can be found on [Github](https://github.com/AlterClassIO/magic-next-auth). You can use it as a starting point for any Next.js app that requires passwordless authentication.

This tutorial covers:

- Configuring Next.js, NextAuth.js, and Fauna to work together seamlessly
- Using Next.js dynamic API routes to handle authentication requests
- Using Fauna and the Fauna Adapter for `next-auth` to persist users, email sign in tokens, and sessions
- Creating custom login and confirmation pages with React + Tailwind CSS
- Customizing the sign-in email and sending a welcome email to new users

#### [Passwordless Authentication with Next.js, Prisma, and next-auth](https://dev.to/prisma/passwordless-authentication-with-next-js-prisma-and-next-auth-5g8g) <svg style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} width="30" height="25" viewBox="0 0 50 40" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><rect width="50" height="40" rx="3" style={{ fill: '#000' }}></rect><path d="M19.099 23.508c0 1.31-.423 2.388-1.27 3.234-.838.839-1.942 1.258-3.312 1.258h-4.403V12.277h4.492c1.31 0 2.385.423 3.224 1.27.846.838 1.269 1.912 1.269 3.223v6.738zm-2.808 0V16.77c0-.562-.187-.981-.562-1.258-.374-.285-.748-.427-1.122-.427h-1.685v10.107h1.684c.375 0 .75-.138 1.123-.415.375-.285.562-.708.562-1.27zM28.185 28h-5.896c-.562 0-1.03-.187-1.404-.561-.375-.375-.562-.843-.562-1.404V14.243c0-.562.187-1.03.562-1.404.374-.375.842-.562 1.404-.562h5.896v2.808H23.13v3.65h3.088v2.808h-3.088v3.65h5.054V28zm7.12 0c-.936 0-1.684-.655-2.246-1.965l-3.65-13.758h3.089l2.807 10.804 2.808-10.804H41.2l-3.65 13.758C36.99 27.345 36.241 28 35.305 28z" style={{ fill: '#fff' }}></path></svg>

- In this post, you'll learn how to add passwordless authentication to your Next.js app using Prisma and next-auth. By the end of this tutorial, your users will be able to log in to your app with either their GitHub account or a Slack-styled magic link sent right to their Email inbox. By Xiaoru Li.

## Advanced

#### [Add auth support to a Next.js app with a custom backend](https://arunoda.me/blog/add-auth-support-to-a-next-js-app-with-a-custom-backend) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- A tutorial by Arunoda Susirpiala.

#### [How to Configure Azure AD B2C Authentication with Next.js](https://benjaminwfox.com/blog/tech/how-to-configure-azure-b2c-with-nextjs) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- Configuring authentication with Azure B2C in Next.js is not a particularly straight forward process. We'll look at how to facilitate this using the NextAuth.js library. By Ben Fox.

#### [Sign in with Apple in NextJS](https://thesiddd.com/blog/apple-auth) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- This tutorial walks step by step on how to get sign in with Apple working (both locally and on a deployed website) using NextAuth.js.

#### [Using NextAuth.js with Magic links](https://dev.to/narciero/using-nextauth-js-with-magic-links-df4) <svg style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} width="30" height="25" viewBox="0 0 50 40" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><rect width="50" height="40" rx="3" style={{ fill: '#000' }}></rect><path d="M19.099 23.508c0 1.31-.423 2.388-1.27 3.234-.838.839-1.942 1.258-3.312 1.258h-4.403V12.277h4.492c1.31 0 2.385.423 3.224 1.27.846.838 1.269 1.912 1.269 3.223v6.738zm-2.808 0V16.77c0-.562-.187-.981-.562-1.258-.374-.285-.748-.427-1.122-.427h-1.685v10.107h1.684c.375 0 .75-.138 1.123-.415.375-.285.562-.708.562-1.27zM28.185 28h-5.896c-.562 0-1.03-.187-1.404-.561-.375-.375-.562-.843-.562-1.404V14.243c0-.562.187-1.03.562-1.404.374-.375.842-.562 1.404-.562h5.896v2.808H23.13v3.65h3.088v2.808h-3.088v3.65h5.054V28zm7.12 0c-.936 0-1.684-.655-2.246-1.965l-3.65-13.758h3.089l2.807 10.804 2.808-10.804H41.2l-3.65 13.758C36.99 27.345 36.241 28 35.305 28z" style={{ fill: '#fff' }}></path></svg>

- Learn how to use [Magic.Link](https://magic.link) authentication with [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org) to enable passwordless authentication without a database.

## Database

#### [Create a NextAuth.js Custom Adapter with HarperDB & Next.js](https://spacejelly.dev/posts/how-to-create-a-nextauth-js-custom-adapter-with-harperdb-next-js/) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- Use a custom database in a Custom Adapter for persisted NextAuth.js sessions using HarperDB as an example.
- Video tutorial also available: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pu7xBv7sZ8s>

#### [Using NextAuth.js with Prisma and PlanetScale serverless databases](https://github.com/planetscale/nextjs-planetscale-starter) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- How to set up a PlanetScale database to fetch and store user / account data with the Prisma adapter.

Commit message:

docs: Link to "Authentication" Next.js (#12464)
Co-authored-by: Balázs Orbán <info@balazsorban.com>

docs/docs/tutorials.md, after:

---
id: tutorials
title: Tutorials and Explainers
---

> These tutorials are contributed by the community. Unless otherwise indicated, tutorials are hosted on this site. External and video based tutorials are denoted with the appropriate icons.
>
> **New submissions and edits are welcome!**

## Basics

#### [Introduction to NextAuth.js](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=npZsJxWntJM) <svg role="img" viewBox="0 0 24 24" height="24" width="24" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><title>YouTube</title><path fill="#ff0000" d="M23.498 6.186a3.016 3.016 0 0 0-2.122-2.136C19.505 3.545 12 3.545 12 3.545s-7.505 0-9.377.505A3.017 3.017 0 0 0 .502 6.186C0 8.07 0 12 0 12s0 3.93.502 5.814a3.016 3.016 0 0 0 2.122 2.136c1.871.505 9.376.505 9.376.505s7.505 0 9.377-.505a3.015 3.015 0 0 0 2.122-2.136C24 15.93 24 12 24 12s0-3.93-.502-5.814zM9.545 15.568V8.432L15.818 12l-6.273 3.568z"/></svg>

- This is an introductory video to NextAuth.js for beginners. In this video, it is explained how to set up authentication in a few easy steps and add different configurations to make it more robust and secure.

#### [Authentication patterns for Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/authentication) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title><path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- Next.js supports multiple patterns for authentication, each designed for different use cases. This guide will allow you to choose your adventure based on your constraints. By Lee Robinson.

#### [Adding Authentication to an existing Next.js Application in no time!](https://dev.to/ndom91/adding-authentication-to-an-existing-serverless-next-js-app-in-no-time-with-nextauth-js-192h) <svg style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} width="30" height="25" viewBox="0 0 50 40" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><rect width="50" height="40" rx="3" style={{ fill: '#000' }}></rect><path d="M19.099 23.508c0 1.31-.423 2.388-1.27 3.234-.838.839-1.942 1.258-3.312 1.258h-4.403V12.277h4.492c1.31 0 2.385.423 3.224 1.27.846.838 1.269 1.912 1.269 3.223v6.738zm-2.808 0V16.77c0-.562-.187-.981-.562-1.258-.374-.285-.748-.427-1.122-.427h-1.685v10.107h1.684c.375 0 .75-.138 1.123-.415.375-.285.562-.708.562-1.27zM28.185 28h-5.896c-.562 0-1.03-.187-1.404-.561-.375-.375-.562-.843-.562-1.404V14.243c0-.562.187-1.03.562-1.404.374-.375.842-.562 1.404-.562h5.896v2.808H23.13v3.65h3.088v2.808h-3.088v3.65h5.054V28zm7.12 0c-.936 0-1.684-.655-2.246-1.965l-3.65-13.758h3.089l2.807 10.804 2.808-10.804H41.2l-3.65 13.758C36.99 27.345 36.241 28 35.305 28z" style={{ fill: '#fff' }}></path></svg>

- This tutorial walks one through adding NextAuth.js to an existing project. Including setting up the OAuth client id and secret, adding the API routes for authentication, protecting pages and API routes behind that authentication, etc.

#### [How to Authenticate Next.js Apps with Twitter & NextAuth.js](https://spacejelly.dev/posts/how-to-authenticate-next-js-apps-with-twitter-nextauth-js/) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- Learn how to add Twitter authentication and login to a Next.js app both clientside and serverside with NextAuth.js.

#### [NextJS Authentication Crash Course with NextAuth.js](https://youtu.be/o_wZIVmWteQ) <svg role="img" viewBox="0 0 24 24" height="24" width="24" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><title>YouTube</title><path fill="#ff0000" d="M23.498 6.186a3.016 3.016 0 0 0-2.122-2.136C19.505 3.545 12 3.545 12 3.545s-7.505 0-9.377.505A3.017 3.017 0 0 0 .502 6.186C0 8.07 0 12 0 12s0 3.93.502 5.814a3.016 3.016 0 0 0 2.122 2.136c1.871.505 9.376.505 9.376.505s7.505 0 9.377-.505a3.015 3.015 0 0 0 2.122-2.136C24 15.93 24 12 24 12s0-3.93-.502-5.814zM9.545 15.568V8.432L15.818 12l-6.273 3.568z"/></svg>

- This tutorial dives into the ins and outs of NextAuth, including using the Email, Github, Twitter and Auth0 providers in under an hour.

#### [Create your own NextAuth.js Login Pages](https://youtu.be/kB6YNYZ63fw) <svg role="img" viewBox="0 0 24 24" height="24" width="24" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><title>YouTube</title><path fill="#ff0000" d="M23.498 6.186a3.016 3.016 0 0 0-2.122-2.136C19.505 3.545 12 3.545 12 3.545s-7.505 0-9.377.505A3.017 3.017 0 0 0 .502 6.186C0 8.07 0 12 0 12s0 3.93.502 5.814a3.016 3.016 0 0 0 2.122 2.136c1.871.505 9.376.505 9.376.505s7.505 0 9.377-.505a3.015 3.015 0 0 0 2.122-2.136C24 15.93 24 12 24 12s0-3.93-.502-5.814zM9.545 15.568V8.432L15.818 12l-6.273 3.568z"/></svg>

- This tutorial shows you how to jump in and create your own custom login pages versus using the ones provided by NextAuth.js

#### [Passwordless Authentication with next-auth](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GPBD3acOx_M) <svg role="img" viewBox="0 0 24 24" height="24" width="24" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><title>YouTube</title><path fill="#ff0000" d="M23.498 6.186a3.016 3.016 0 0 0-2.122-2.136C19.505 3.545 12 3.545 12 3.545s-7.505 0-9.377.505A3.017 3.017 0 0 0 .502 6.186C0 8.07 0 12 0 12s0 3.93.502 5.814a3.016 3.016 0 0 0 2.122 2.136c1.871.505 9.376.505 9.376.505s7.505 0 9.377-.505a3.015 3.015 0 0 0 2.122-2.136C24 15.93 24 12 24 12s0-3.93-.502-5.814zM9.545 15.568V8.432L15.818 12l-6.273 3.568z"/></svg>

- A video tutorial by Xiaoru Li from Prisma.

#### [How to authenticate Next.js Apps with Sign-In With Ethereum (SIWE) & NextAuth.js](https://docs.login.xyz/integrations/nextauth.js) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- Learn how to use Sign-In With Ethereum to authenticate your users with their existing Ethereum wallets - identifiers they personally control.
- Example application: [spruceid/siwe-next-auth-example](https://github.com/spruceid/siwe-next-auth-example)

#### [Next.js Authentication with Okta and NextAuth.js 4.0](https://thetombomb.com/posts/nextjs-nextauth-okta) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- Learn how to perform authentication with an OIDC Application in Okta and NextAuth.js.

## Fullstack

#### [Magic Link Authentication in Next.js with NextAuth and Fauna](https://alterclass.io/tutorials/magic-link-authentication-in-nextjs-with-nextauth-and-fauna) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

Learn how to implement passwordless/magic link authentication with database storage in your Next.js projects using NextAuth and Fauna DB.

> The final version of the project's code can be found on [Github](https://github.com/AlterClassIO/magic-next-auth). You can use it as a starting point for any Next.js app that requires passwordless authentication.

This tutorial covers:

- Configuring Next.js, NextAuth.js, and Fauna to work together seamlessly
- Using Next.js dynamic API routes to handle authentication requests
- Using Fauna and the Fauna Adapter for `next-auth` to persist users, email sign in tokens, and sessions
- Creating custom login and confirmation pages with React + Tailwind CSS
- Customizing the sign-in email and sending a welcome email to new users

#### [Passwordless Authentication with Next.js, Prisma, and next-auth](https://dev.to/prisma/passwordless-authentication-with-next-js-prisma-and-next-auth-5g8g) <svg style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} width="30" height="25" viewBox="0 0 50 40" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><rect width="50" height="40" rx="3" style={{ fill: '#000' }}></rect><path d="M19.099 23.508c0 1.31-.423 2.388-1.27 3.234-.838.839-1.942 1.258-3.312 1.258h-4.403V12.277h4.492c1.31 0 2.385.423 3.224 1.27.846.838 1.269 1.912 1.269 3.223v6.738zm-2.808 0V16.77c0-.562-.187-.981-.562-1.258-.374-.285-.748-.427-1.122-.427h-1.685v10.107h1.684c.375 0 .75-.138 1.123-.415.375-.285.562-.708.562-1.27zM28.185 28h-5.896c-.562 0-1.03-.187-1.404-.561-.375-.375-.562-.843-.562-1.404V14.243c0-.562.187-1.03.562-1.404.374-.375.842-.562 1.404-.562h5.896v2.808H23.13v3.65h3.088v2.808h-3.088v3.65h5.054V28zm7.12 0c-.936 0-1.684-.655-2.246-1.965l-3.65-13.758h3.089l2.807 10.804 2.808-10.804H41.2l-3.65 13.758C36.99 27.345 36.241 28 35.305 28z" style={{ fill: '#fff' }}></path></svg>

- In this post, you'll learn how to add passwordless authentication to your Next.js app using Prisma and next-auth. By the end of this tutorial, your users will be able to log in to your app with either their GitHub account or a Slack-styled magic link sent right to their Email inbox. By Xiaoru Li.

## Advanced

#### [Add auth support to a Next.js app with a custom backend](https://arunoda.me/blog/add-auth-support-to-a-next-js-app-with-a-custom-backend) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- A tutorial by Arunoda Susirpiala.

#### [How to Configure Azure AD B2C Authentication with Next.js](https://benjaminwfox.com/blog/tech/how-to-configure-azure-b2c-with-nextjs) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- Configuring authentication with Azure B2C in Next.js is not a particularly straight forward process. We'll look at how to facilitate this using the NextAuth.js library. By Ben Fox.

#### [Sign in with Apple in NextJS](https://thesiddd.com/blog/apple-auth) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- This tutorial walks step by step on how to get sign in with Apple working (both locally and on a deployed website) using NextAuth.js.

#### [Using NextAuth.js with Magic links](https://dev.to/narciero/using-nextauth-js-with-magic-links-df4) <svg style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} width="30" height="25" viewBox="0 0 50 40" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><rect width="50" height="40" rx="3" style={{ fill: '#000' }}></rect><path d="M19.099 23.508c0 1.31-.423 2.388-1.27 3.234-.838.839-1.942 1.258-3.312 1.258h-4.403V12.277h4.492c1.31 0 2.385.423 3.224 1.27.846.838 1.269 1.912 1.269 3.223v6.738zm-2.808 0V16.77c0-.562-.187-.981-.562-1.258-.374-.285-.748-.427-1.122-.427h-1.685v10.107h1.684c.375 0 .75-.138 1.123-.415.375-.285.562-.708.562-1.27zM28.185 28h-5.896c-.562 0-1.03-.187-1.404-.561-.375-.375-.562-.843-.562-1.404V14.243c0-.562.187-1.03.562-1.404.374-.375.842-.562 1.404-.562h5.896v2.808H23.13v3.65h3.088v2.808h-3.088v3.65h5.054V28zm7.12 0c-.936 0-1.684-.655-2.246-1.965l-3.65-13.758h3.089l2.807 10.804 2.808-10.804H41.2l-3.65 13.758C36.99 27.345 36.241 28 35.305 28z" style={{ fill: '#fff' }}></path></svg>

- Learn how to use [Magic.Link](https://magic.link) authentication with [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org) to enable passwordless authentication without a database.

## Database

#### [Create a NextAuth.js Custom Adapter with HarperDB & Next.js](https://spacejelly.dev/posts/how-to-create-a-nextauth-js-custom-adapter-with-harperdb-next-js/) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- Use a custom database in a Custom Adapter for persisted NextAuth.js sessions using HarperDB as an example.
- Video tutorial also available: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pu7xBv7sZ8s>

#### [Using NextAuth.js with Prisma and PlanetScale serverless databases](https://github.com/planetscale/nextjs-planetscale-starter) <svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" style={{ marginLeft: '5px', marginBottom:'-6px'}} height="20" width="20" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor"><title>External</title> <path strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round" strokeWidth="2" d="M10 6H6a2 2 0 00-2 2v10a2 2 0 002 2h10a2 2 0 002-2v-4M14 4h6m0 0v6m0-6L10 14" /> </svg>

- How to set up a PlanetScale database to fetch and store user / account data with the Prisma adapter.
