docs/pages/getting-started/authentication/webauthn.mdx, before:

---
title: WebAuthn
---

import { Steps, Callout } from "nextra/components"

# WebAuthn (Passkeys)

<Callout type="warning">
  The WebAuthn / Passkeys provider is experimental and not recommended for
  production use.
</Callout>

The WebAuthn provider requires changes to all of the framework integration as well
as any database adapter that plans to support it. Therefore, the WebAuthn provider
is currently only supported in the following framework integration and database adapters.
Support for more frameworks and adapters are coming soon.

- `next-auth@5.0.0-beta.8` or above
- `@auth/prisma-adapter@1.3.0` or above
- `node@20.0.0` or above

<Steps>

### Install peer dependencies

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @simplewebauthn/server@9.0.3 @simplewebauthn/browser@9.0.1
```

The `@simplewebauthn/browser` peer dependency **is only required for custom signin pages**. If you're using the Auth.js default pages, you can skip installing that peer dependency.

### Apply the required schema Migrations

This is the raw SQL migration for PostgreSQL, for more details including example migrations for other databases, check out the updated Prisma schemas at the [`@auth/prisma-adapter` docs](/getting-started/adapters/prisma).

In short, the Passkeys provider requires an additional table called `Authenticator`.

```sql filename="./migration/add-webauthn-authenticator-table.sql"
-- CreateTable
CREATE TABLE "Authenticator" (
    "credentialID" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "userId" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "providerAccountId" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "credentialPublicKey" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "counter" INTEGER NOT NULL,
    "credentialDeviceType" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "credentialBackedUp" BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    "transports" TEXT,
    PRIMARY KEY ("userId", "credentialID"),
    CONSTRAINT "Authenticator_userId_fkey" FOREIGN KEY ("userId") REFERENCES "User" ("id") ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
);


-- CreateIndex
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX "Authenticator_credentialID_key" ON "Authenticator"("credentialID");
```

### Update Auth.js Configuration

Add the `Passkeys` provider to your configuration. Also make sure you're using a compatible database adapter.

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import Passkey from "next-auth/providers/passkey"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client"

const prisma = new PrismaClient()

export default {
  adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  providers: [Passkey],
  experimental: { enableWebAuthn: true },
}
```

If you're using the built-in Auth.js pages, then you are good to go! Navigating to your `/signin` route should include a "Signin with Passkeys" button.

### Custom Pages

If you're using a custom signin page, you can leverage the `next-auth` `signIn` function to initiate WebAuthn registration and login flows with the following code.

<Callout>
  When using the WebAuthn `signIn` function, you'll also need the
  `@simplewebauth/browser` peer dependency installed.
</Callout>

```ts filename="app/login/page.tsx"
"use client"

import { useSession } from "next-auth/react"
import { signIn } from "next-auth/webauthn"

export default function Login() {
  const { data: session, update, status } = useSession()

  return (
    <div>
      {status === "authenticated" ? (
        <button onClick={() => signIn("passkey", { action: "register" })}>
          Register new Passkey
        </button>
      ) : status === "unauthenticated" ? (
        <button onClick={() => signIn("passkey")}>Sign in with Passkey</button>
      ) : null}
    </div>
  )
}
```

</Steps>

Commit message:

Updates SimpleWebAuthn dependencies to v13
Updates the `@simplewebauthn/browser` and `@simplewebauthn/server` peer dependencies to version 13.2.2 in the WebAuthn and Passkey documentation.

Clarifies the usage of `@simplewebauthn/browser` dependency, emphasizing that it's only required for custom sign-in pages. Also, mentions that types are now exported from browser and server packages.

docs/pages/getting-started/authentication/webauthn.mdx, after:

---
title: WebAuthn
---

import { Steps, Callout } from "nextra/components"

# WebAuthn (Passkeys)

<Callout type="warning">
  The WebAuthn / Passkeys provider is experimental and not recommended for
  production use.
</Callout>

The WebAuthn provider requires changes to all of the framework integration as well
as any database adapter that plans to support it. Therefore, the WebAuthn provider
is currently only supported in the following framework integration and database adapters.
Support for more frameworks and adapters are coming soon.

- `next-auth@5.0.0-beta.8` or above
- `@auth/prisma-adapter@1.3.0` or above
- `node@20.0.0` or above

<Steps>

### Install peer dependencies

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @simplewebauthn/server@^13.2.2 @simplewebauthn/browser@^13.2.2
```

Auth.js uses [SimpleWebAuthn v13](https://simplewebauthn.dev/docs/packages/server). The `@simplewebauthn/browser` peer dependency **is only required for custom sign-in pages**. If you're using the Auth.js default pages, you can skip installing the browser package. As of v13, types come from the browser and server packages (no separate `@simplewebauthn/types`).

### Apply the required schema Migrations

This is the raw SQL migration for PostgreSQL, for more details including example migrations for other databases, check out the updated Prisma schemas at the [`@auth/prisma-adapter` docs](/getting-started/adapters/prisma).

In short, the Passkeys provider requires an additional table called `Authenticator`.

```sql filename="./migration/add-webauthn-authenticator-table.sql"
-- CreateTable
CREATE TABLE "Authenticator" (
    "credentialID" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "userId" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "providerAccountId" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "credentialPublicKey" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "counter" INTEGER NOT NULL,
    "credentialDeviceType" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "credentialBackedUp" BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    "transports" TEXT,
    PRIMARY KEY ("userId", "credentialID"),
    CONSTRAINT "Authenticator_userId_fkey" FOREIGN KEY ("userId") REFERENCES "User" ("id") ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
);


-- CreateIndex
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX "Authenticator_credentialID_key" ON "Authenticator"("credentialID");
```

### Update Auth.js Configuration

Add the `Passkeys` provider to your configuration. Also make sure you're using a compatible database adapter.

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import Passkey from "next-auth/providers/passkey"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client"

const prisma = new PrismaClient()

export default {
  adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  providers: [Passkey],
  experimental: { enableWebAuthn: true },
}
```

If you're using the built-in Auth.js pages, then you are good to go! Navigating to your `/signin` route should include a "Signin with Passkeys" button.

### Custom Pages

If you're using a custom signin page, you can leverage the `next-auth` `signIn` function to initiate WebAuthn registration and login flows with the following code.

<Callout>
  When using the WebAuthn `signIn` function, you'll also need the
  `@simplewebauth/browser` peer dependency installed.
</Callout>

```ts filename="app/login/page.tsx"
"use client"

import { useSession } from "next-auth/react"
import { signIn } from "next-auth/webauthn"

export default function Login() {
  const { data: session, update, status } = useSession()

  return (
    <div>
      {status === "authenticated" ? (
        <button onClick={() => signIn("passkey", { action: "register" })}>
          Register new Passkey
        </button>
      ) : status === "unauthenticated" ? (
        <button onClick={() => signIn("passkey")}>Sign in with Passkey</button>
      ) : null}
    </div>
  )
}
```

</Steps>
