docs/pages/guides/integrating-third-party-backends.mdx, before:

# Integrating with third-party backends

When logging in through a provider, you can use the received OAuth tokens to authenticate against a third-party API.
These tokens can be used to authorize requests to backends that are supporting the corresponding provider.

For example:

- GitHub's `access_token` will give you access to GitHub's APIs.
- Self-managed providers (like Keycloak) can be used to authorize against custom third-party backends.

## Storing the token in the session

The token(s) are made availale in the `account` parameter of the jwt callback.
To store them in the session, they can be attached to the token first.

```typescript
jwt({ token, trigger, session, account }) {
  if (account?.provider === "my-provider") {
    return { ...token, accessToken: account.access_token }
  }
  // ...
}
```

In order to access the token when making API requests, it needs to be made available to the Auth.js session.

```typescript
async session({ session, token }) {
  session.accessToken = token.accessToken
  return session
}
```

## Using the token to make authorized API requests

OAuth tokens are commonly attached as `Authorization: Bearer <>` header.
It is recommended to attach this header server side, like a [Route Handler](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/route-handlers).

```typescript
export async function handler(request: NextRequest) {
  const session = await auth()
  return await fetch(/*<your-backend-url>/api/authenticated/greeting*/, {
    headers: { "Authorization":  `Bearer ${session?.accessToken}` }
  })
  // ...
}
```

## Configuring the backend to authorize requests through your provider

Consult your backend framework's documentation on how to verify incoming access tokens.
Below is an [example](https://github.com/nextauthjs/authjs-third-party-backend/tree/main/backend-express) with Express.js using a [Keycloak](https://providers.authjs.dev/keycloak) instance.

```javascript
const app = express()
const jwtCheck = jwt({
  secret: jwks.expressJwtSecret({
    cache: true,
    rateLimit: true,
    jwksRequestsPerMinute: 5,
    jwksUri:
      "https://keycloak.authjs.dev/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/certs",
  }),
  issuer: "https://keycloak.authjs.dev/realms/master",
  algorithms: ["RS256"],
})
app.get("*", jwtCheck, (req, res) => {
  const name = req.auth?.name ?? "unknown name"
  res.json({ greeting: `Hello, ${name}!` })
})
// ...
```

## Resources

- Further examples for different backend frameworks can be found [here](https://github.com/nextauthjs/authjs-third-party-backend/tree/main).
- A full example of how to integrate a client app with a third-party API can be found in the [next-auth-example](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth-example).

Commit message:

docs: mention `oidc-provider` in third-party guide

docs/pages/guides/integrating-third-party-backends.mdx, after:

# Integrating with third-party backends

When logging in through a provider, you can use the received OAuth tokens to authenticate against a third-party API.
These tokens can be used to authorize requests to backends that are supporting the corresponding provider.

For example:

- GitHub's `access_token` will give you access to GitHub's APIs.
- Self-managed providers (like [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org), [`oidc-provider`](https://github.com/panva/node-oidc-provider), etc.) can be used to authorize against custom third-party backends.

## Storing the token in the session

The token(s) are made availale in the `account` parameter of the jwt callback.
To store them in the session, they can be attached to the token first.

```typescript
jwt({ token, trigger, session, account }) {
  if (account?.provider === "my-provider") {
    return { ...token, accessToken: account.access_token }
  }
  // ...
}
```

In order to access the token when making API requests, it needs to be made available to the Auth.js session.

```typescript
async session({ session, token }) {
  session.accessToken = token.accessToken
  return session
}
```

## Using the token to make authorized API requests

OAuth tokens are commonly attached as `Authorization: Bearer <>` header.
It is recommended to attach this header server side, like a [Route Handler](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/route-handlers).

```typescript
export async function handler(request: NextRequest) {
  const session = await auth()
  return await fetch(/*<your-backend-url>/api/authenticated/greeting*/, {
    headers: { "Authorization":  `Bearer ${session?.accessToken}` }
  })
  // ...
}
```

## Configuring the backend to authorize requests through your provider

Consult your backend framework's documentation on how to verify incoming access tokens.
Below is an [example](https://github.com/nextauthjs/authjs-third-party-backend/tree/main/backend-express) with Express.js using a [Keycloak](https://providers.authjs.dev/keycloak) instance.

```javascript
const app = express()
const jwtCheck = jwt({
  secret: jwks.expressJwtSecret({
    cache: true,
    rateLimit: true,
    jwksRequestsPerMinute: 5,
    jwksUri:
      "https://keycloak.authjs.dev/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/certs",
  }),
  issuer: "https://keycloak.authjs.dev/realms/master",
  algorithms: ["RS256"],
})
app.get("*", jwtCheck, (req, res) => {
  const name = req.auth?.name ?? "unknown name"
  res.json({ greeting: `Hello, ${name}!` })
})
// ...
```

## Resources

- Further examples for different backend frameworks can be found [here](https://github.com/nextauthjs/authjs-third-party-backend/tree/main).
- A full example of how to integrate a client app with a third-party API can be found in the [next-auth-example](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth-example).
- [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org) - Open Source Identity and Access Management For Modern Applications and Services
- [`oidc-provider`](https://github.com/panva/node-oidc-provider) - OpenID Certified™ OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server implementation for Node.js
