docs/pages/getting-started/providers/azure-ad.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"

<img align="right" src="/img/providers/azure.svg" height="64" width="64" />

# Azure AD Provider

<Callout type="warning">
  Deprecated - Microsoft has rebranded this product [Microsoft Entra
  ID](/getting-started/providers/microsoft-entra-id) and all support work will
  be going into that IdP. We recommend you migrate to using that provider as
  well.
</Callout>

## Resources

- [AzureAD OAuth documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow/)
- [AzureAD OAuth apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app/)

## Setup

### Callback URL

<Code>
  <Code.Next>

```bash
https://example.com/api/auth/callback/azure-ad
```

  </Code.Next>
  <Code.Qwik>

```bash
https://example.com/auth/callback/azure-ad
```

  </Code.Qwik>
  <Code.Svelte>

```bash
https://example.com/auth/callback/azure-ad
```

  </Code.Svelte>
</Code>

### Environment Variables

```
AUTH_AZURE_AD_ID
AUTH_AZURE_AD_SECRET
AUTH_AZURE_AD_TENANT_ID
```

### Configuration

<Code>
  <Code.Next>

```ts filename="/auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import AzureAd from "next-auth/providers/azure-ad"

export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  providers: [AzureAd],
})
```

  </Code.Next>
  <Code.Qwik>
  
```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import AzureAd from "@auth/qwik/providers/azure-ad"

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [AzureAd],
  })
)
```

  </Code.Qwik>
  <Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="/src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import AzureAd from "@auth/sveltekit/providers/azure-ad"

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  providers: [AzureAd],
})
```

  </Code.Svelte>
  <Code.Express>

```ts filename="/src/app.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import AzureAd from "@auth/express/providers/azure-ad"

app.use("/auth/*", ExpressAuth({ providers: [AzureAd] }))
```

  </Code.Express>
</Code>

#### To allow specific Active Directory users access:

- In https://portal.azure.com/ search for "Azure Active Directory", and select your organization.
- Next, go to "App Registration" in the left menu, and create a new one.
- Pay close attention to "Who can use this application or access this API?"
  - This allows you to scope access to specific types of user accounts
  - Only your tenant, all azure tenants, or all azure tenants and public Microsoft accounts (Skype, Xbox, Outlook.com, etc.)
- When asked for a redirection URL, use `https://yourapplication.com/api/auth/callback/azure-ad` or for development `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/azure-ad`.
- After your App Registration is created, under "Client Credential" create your Client secret.
- Click on "API Permissions" and click "Grant admin consent for..." to allow User.Read access to your tenant.
- Now copy your:
  - Application (client) ID
  - Directory (tenant) ID
  - Client secret (value)

In `.env.local` create the following entries:

```
AUTH_AZURE_AD_CLIENT_ID=<copy Application (client) ID here>
AUTH_AZURE_AD_CLIENT_SECRET=<copy generated client secret value here>
AUTH_AZURE_AD_TENANT_ID=<copy the tenant id here>
```

That will default the tenant to use the `common` authorization endpoint. [For more details see here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-v2-protocols#endpoints).

<Callout type="info">
  Azure AD returns the profile picture in an ArrayBuffer, instead of just a URL
  to the image, so our provider converts it to a base64 encoded image string and
  returns that instead. See:
  https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/profilephoto-get?view=graph-rest-1.0#examples.
  The default image size is 48x48 to avoid [running out of
  space](https://next-auth.js.org/faq#:~:text=What%20are%20the%20disadvantages%20of%20JSON%20Web%20Tokens%3F)
  in case the session is saved as a JWT.
</Callout>

In `pages/api/auth/[...nextauth].js` find or add the `AzureAD` entries:

```js
import AzureADProvider from "next-auth/providers/azure-ad"

providers: [
  AzureADProvider({
    clientId: process.env.AZURE_AD_CLIENT_ID,
    clientSecret: process.env.AZURE_AD_CLIENT_SECRET,
    tenantId: process.env.AZURE_AD_TENANT_ID,
  }),
]
```

Commit message:

chore(docs): update azure-ad.mdx (#11458)
* Update azure-ad.mdx

public -> personal

* Update azure-ad.mdx

---------

Co-authored-by: Nico Domino <yo@ndo.dev>

docs/pages/getting-started/providers/azure-ad.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"

<img align="right" src="/img/providers/azure.svg" height="64" width="64" />

# Azure AD Provider

<Callout type="warning">
  Deprecated - Microsoft has rebranded this product [Microsoft Entra
  ID](/getting-started/providers/microsoft-entra-id) and all support work will
  be going into that IdP. We recommend you migrate to using that provider as
  well.
</Callout>

## Resources

- [AzureAD OAuth documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow/)
- [AzureAD OAuth apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app/)

## Setup

### Callback URL

<Code>
  <Code.Next>

```bash
https://example.com/api/auth/callback/azure-ad
```

  </Code.Next>
  <Code.Qwik>

```bash
https://example.com/auth/callback/azure-ad
```

  </Code.Qwik>
  <Code.Svelte>

```bash
https://example.com/auth/callback/azure-ad
```

  </Code.Svelte>
</Code>

### Environment Variables

```
AUTH_AZURE_AD_ID
AUTH_AZURE_AD_SECRET
AUTH_AZURE_AD_TENANT_ID
```

### Configuration

<Code>
  <Code.Next>

```ts filename="/auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import AzureAd from "next-auth/providers/azure-ad"

export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  providers: [AzureAd],
})
```

  </Code.Next>
  <Code.Qwik>
  
```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import AzureAd from "@auth/qwik/providers/azure-ad"

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [AzureAd],
  })
)
```

  </Code.Qwik>
  <Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="/src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import AzureAd from "@auth/sveltekit/providers/azure-ad"

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  providers: [AzureAd],
})
```

  </Code.Svelte>
  <Code.Express>

```ts filename="/src/app.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import AzureAd from "@auth/express/providers/azure-ad"

app.use("/auth/*", ExpressAuth({ providers: [AzureAd] }))
```

  </Code.Express>
</Code>

#### To allow specific Active Directory users access:

- In https://portal.azure.com/ search for "Azure Active Directory", and select your organization.
- Next, go to "App Registration" in the left menu, and create a new one.
- Pay close attention to "Who can use this application or access this API?"
  - This allows you to scope access to specific types of user accounts
  - Only your tenant, all azure tenants, or all azure tenants and personal Microsoft accounts (Skype, Xbox, Outlook.com, etc.)
- When asked for a redirection URL, use `https://yourapplication.com/api/auth/callback/azure-ad` or for development `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/azure-ad`.
- After your App Registration is created, under "Client Credential" create your Client secret.
- Click on "API Permissions" and click "Grant admin consent for..." to allow User.Read access to your tenant.
- Now copy your:
  - Application (client) ID
  - Directory (tenant) ID
  - Client secret (value)

In `.env.local` create the following entries:

```
AUTH_AZURE_AD_CLIENT_ID=<copy Application (client) ID here>
AUTH_AZURE_AD_CLIENT_SECRET=<copy generated client secret value here>
AUTH_AZURE_AD_TENANT_ID=<copy the tenant id here>
```

That will default the tenant to use the `common` authorization endpoint. [For more details see here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-v2-protocols#endpoints).

If you want your application to receive authorization requests from not only the tenants but also all Microsoft users just add "common" in AUTH_AZURE_AD_TENANT_ID, this will "skip" tenants authorization.

```
AUTH_AZURE_AD_TENANT_ID=common
```

<Callout type="info">
  Azure AD returns the profile picture in an ArrayBuffer, instead of just a URL
  to the image, so our provider converts it to a base64 encoded image string and
  returns that instead. See:
  https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/profilephoto-get?view=graph-rest-1.0#examples.
  The default image size is 48x48 to avoid [running out of
  space](https://next-auth.js.org/faq#:~:text=What%20are%20the%20disadvantages%20of%20JSON%20Web%20Tokens%3F)
  in case the session is saved as a JWT.
</Callout>

In `pages/api/auth/[...nextauth].js` find or add the `AzureAD` entries:

```js
import AzureADProvider from "next-auth/providers/azure-ad"

providers: [
  AzureADProvider({
    clientId: process.env.AZURE_AD_CLIENT_ID,
    clientSecret: process.env.AZURE_AD_CLIENT_SECRET,
    tenantId: process.env.AZURE_AD_TENANT_ID,
  }),
]
```
