docs/pages/getting-started/providers/microsoft-entra-id.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"

<img
  align="right"
  src="/img/providers/microsoft-entra-id.svg"
  height="64"
  width="64"
/>

# Microsoft Entra ID

<Callout>
  Microsoft has renamed **Azure AD** to **Microsoft Entra ID**, more information
  about the new name can be found
  [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/new-name).
</Callout>

## Resources

- [Microsoft Entra OAuth documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow)
- [Microsoft Entra OAuth apps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/quickstart-register-app)

## Setup

### Callback URL

<Code>
  <Code.Next>

```bash
https://example.com/api/auth/callback/microsoft-entra-id
```

  </Code.Next>
  <Code.Qwik>

```bash
https://example.com/auth/callback/microsoft-entra-id
```

  </Code.Qwik>
  <Code.Svelte>

```bash
https://example.com/auth/callback/microsoft-entra-id
```

  </Code.Svelte>
</Code>

### Environment Variables

```
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID
```

### Configuration

<Code>
  <Code.Next>

```ts filename="/auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import MicrosoftEntraID from "next-auth/providers/microsoft-entra-id"

const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  providers: [
    MicrosoftEntraID({
      clientId: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET,
      tenantId: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID,
    }),
  ],
})
```

  </Code.Next>
  <Code.Qwik>
  
```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import Entra from "@auth/qwik/providers/microsoft-entra-id"

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [
      Entra({
        clientId: import.meta.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID,
        clientSecret: import.meta.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET,
        tenantId: import.meta.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID,
      }),
    ],
  })
)
```

  </Code.Qwik>
  <Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="/src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import Entra from "@auth/sveltekit/providers/microsoft-entra-id"
import { env } from "$env/dynamic/private"

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  providers: [
    Entra({
      clientId: env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID,
      clientSecret: env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET,
      tenantId: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID,
    }),
  ],
})
```

  </Code.Svelte>
  <Code.Express>

```ts filename="/src/app.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import Entra from "@auth/express/providers/microsoft-entra-id"

app.use(
  "/auth/*",
  ExpressAuth({
    providers: [
      Entra({
        clientId: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID,
        clientSecret: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET,
        tenantId: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID,
      }),
    ],
  })
)
```

  </Code.Express>
</Code>

### Notes

1. Allow only Specific Active Directory Users

- In https://entra.microsoft.com/ select Identity from the left bar menu.
- Next, go to "App Registration" in the left menu, and create a new one.
- Pay close attention to "Who can use this application or access this API?"
  - This allows you to scope access to specific types of user accounts
  - Only your tenant, all Microsoft tenants, or all Microsoft tenants and public Microsoft accounts (Skype, Xbox, Outlook.com, etc.)
- When asked for a redirection URL, use `https://yourapplication.com/api/auth/callback/microsoft-entra-id` or for development `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/microsoft-entra-id`.
- After your App Registration is created, under "Client Credential" create your Client secret.
- Now copy your:
  - Application (client) ID
  - Directory (tenant) ID
  - Client secret (value)

In `.env.local` create the following entries:

```
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID=<copy Application (client) ID here>
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET=<copy generated client secret value here>
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID=<copy the tenant id here>
```

That will default the tenant to use the `common` authorization endpoint. [For more details see here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/v2-protocols#endpoints).

- Microsoft Entra returns the profile picture in an ArrayBuffer, instead of just a URL to the image, so our provider converts it to a base64 encoded image string and returns that instead. See: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/profilephoto-get?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http#examples. The default image size is 48x48 to avoid [running out of space](https://next-auth.js.org/faq#:~:text=What%20are%20the%20disadvantages%20of%20JSON%20Web%20Tokens%3F) in case the session is saved as a JWT.

Commit message:

Correct an error in the Entra docs regarding tenant configuration

docs/pages/getting-started/providers/microsoft-entra-id.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"

<img
  align="right"
  src="/img/providers/microsoft-entra-id.svg"
  height="64"
  width="64"
/>

# Microsoft Entra ID

<Callout>
  Microsoft has renamed **Azure AD** to **Microsoft Entra ID**, more information
  about the new name can be found
  [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/new-name).
</Callout>

## Resources

- [Microsoft Entra OAuth documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow)
- [Microsoft Entra OAuth apps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/quickstart-register-app)

## Setup

### Callback URL

<Code>
  <Code.Next>

```bash
https://example.com/api/auth/callback/microsoft-entra-id
```

  </Code.Next>
  <Code.Qwik>

```bash
https://example.com/auth/callback/microsoft-entra-id
```

  </Code.Qwik>
  <Code.Svelte>

```bash
https://example.com/auth/callback/microsoft-entra-id
```

  </Code.Svelte>
</Code>

### Environment Variables

```
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID
```

### Configuration

<Code>
  <Code.Next>

```ts filename="/auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import MicrosoftEntraID from "next-auth/providers/microsoft-entra-id"

const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  providers: [
    MicrosoftEntraID({
      clientId: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET,
      tenantId: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID,
    }),
  ],
})
```

  </Code.Next>
  <Code.Qwik>
  
```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import Entra from "@auth/qwik/providers/microsoft-entra-id"

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [
      Entra({
        clientId: import.meta.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID,
        clientSecret: import.meta.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET,
        tenantId: import.meta.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID,
      }),
    ],
  })
)
```

  </Code.Qwik>
  <Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="/src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import Entra from "@auth/sveltekit/providers/microsoft-entra-id"
import { env } from "$env/dynamic/private"

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  providers: [
    Entra({
      clientId: env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID,
      clientSecret: env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET,
      tenantId: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID,
    }),
  ],
})
```

  </Code.Svelte>
  <Code.Express>

```ts filename="/src/app.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import Entra from "@auth/express/providers/microsoft-entra-id"

app.use(
  "/auth/*",
  ExpressAuth({
    providers: [
      Entra({
        clientId: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID,
        clientSecret: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET,
        tenantId: process.env.AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID,
      }),
    ],
  })
)
```

  </Code.Express>
</Code>

### Notes

1. Allow only Specific Active Directory Users

- In https://entra.microsoft.com/ select Identity from the left bar menu.
- Next, go to "App Registration" in the left menu, and create a new one.
- Pay close attention to "Who can use this application or access this API?"
  - This allows you to scope access to specific types of user accounts
  - Only your tenant, all Microsoft tenants, or all Microsoft tenants and public Microsoft accounts (Skype, Xbox, Outlook.com, etc.)
- When asked for a redirection URL, use `https://yourapplication.com/api/auth/callback/microsoft-entra-id` or for development `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/microsoft-entra-id`.
- After your App Registration is created, under "Client Credential" create your Client secret.
- Now copy your:
  - Application (client) ID
  - Directory (tenant) ID
  - Client secret (value)

In `.env.local` create the following entries:

```
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID=<copy Application (client) ID here>
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET=<copy generated client secret value here>
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_TENANT_ID=<copy the tenant id here>
```

Note that this will enforce a single-tenant deployment; where only members of your organization will be able to sign in. For details on how to correctly set up a multi-tenant configuration, [see this Github issue](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/issues/8374)

- Microsoft Entra returns the profile picture in an ArrayBuffer, instead of just a URL to the image, so our provider converts it to a base64 encoded image string and returns that instead. See: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/profilephoto-get?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http#examples. The default image size is 48x48 to avoid [running out of space](https://next-auth.js.org/faq#:~:text=What%20are%20the%20disadvantages%20of%20JSON%20Web%20Tokens%3F) in case the session is saved as a JWT.
