docs/pages/getting-started/providers/passkey.mdx, before:

import { Callout, Steps } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"
import { Accordion, Accordions } from "@/components/Accordion"

<img align="right" src="/img/providers/passkey.svg" width="128" height="128" />

# Passkey

## Setup

<Callout type="warning">
  The WebAuthn / Passkeys provider is experimental and not yet recommended for
  production use.
</Callout>

The Passkeys provider **requires a database adapter** as well as a new table in that database. Please see the docs page for your adapter for the respective migration details.

Passkeys are currently supported in the following adapters / framework packages.

| Package                   | Minimum Version | Link                                        |
| ------------------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `next-auth`               | `5.0.0-beta.17` |                                             |
| `@auth/sveltekit`         | `1.0.2`         |                                             |
| `@auth/prisma-adapter`    | `1.3.3`         | [Docs](/getting-started/adapters/prisma)    |
| `@auth/unstorage-adapter` | `2.1.0`         | [Docs](/getting-started/adapters/unstorage) |
| `@auth/drizzle-adapter`   | `1.1.1`         | [Docs](/getting-started/adapters/drizzle)   |

<Steps>
### Install peer dependencies

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @simplewebauthn/browser@9.0.1 @simplewebauthn/server@9.0.3
```

The `@simplewebauthn/browser` peer dependency is only required for custom signin pages. If you're using the Auth.js default pages, you can skip installing that peer dependency.

### Database Setup

The Passkeys provider requires an additional table called `Authenticator`. Passkeys are now supported in multiple adapters, please see their respective docs pages for more detailed migration steps. We'll use Prisma as an example going forward here, but there is also a raw SQL migration included below.

<Accordions>
<Accordion title="Prisma Schema">

```prisma {18, 54-66}
datasource db {
  provider = "sqlite"
  url      = "file:./dev.db"
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String    @id @default(cuid())
  name          String?
  email         String    @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]
  Authenticator Authenticator[]
}

model Account {
  userId            String
  type              String
  provider          String
  providerAccountId String
  refresh_token     String?
  access_token      String?
  expires_at        Int?
  token_type        String?
  scope             String?
  id_token          String?
  session_state     String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@id([provider, providerAccountId])
}

model Session {
  sessionToken String   @unique
  userId       String
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)
}

model VerificationToken {
  identifier String
  token      String   @unique
  expires    DateTime

  @@id([identifier, token])
}

model Authenticator {
  id                   String  @id @default(cuid())
  credentialID         String  @unique
  userId               String
  providerAccountId    String
  credentialPublicKey  String
  counter              Int
  credentialDeviceType String
  credentialBackedUp   Boolean
  transports           String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)
}
```

  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="SQL Migration">

This migration works for **PostgreSQL** and **SQLite**.

```sql filename="./migration/add-webauthn-authenticator-table-postgres.sql"
-- CreateTable
CREATE TABLE "Authenticator" (
    "id" TEXT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
    "credentialID" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "userId" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "providerAccountId" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "credentialPublicKey" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "counter" INTEGER NOT NULL,
    "credentialDeviceType" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "credentialBackedUp" BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    "transports" TEXT,
    CONSTRAINT "Authenticator_userId_fkey" FOREIGN KEY ("userId") REFERENCES "User" ("id") ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
);

-- CreateIndex
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX "Authenticator_credentialID_key" ON "Authenticator"("credentialID");
```

This migration works for **MySQL** / **MariaDB**.

```sql filename="./migration/add-webauthn-authenticator-table-mysql.sql"
-- CreateTable
CREATE TABLE Authenticator (
    id varchar(255) NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
    credentialID TEXT NOT NULL,
    userId varchar(255) NOT NULL,
    providerAccountId TEXT NOT NULL,
    credentialPublicKey TEXT NOT NULL,
    counter INTEGER NOT NULL,
    credentialDeviceType TEXT NOT NULL,
    credentialBackedUp BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    transports TEXT,
    CONSTRAINT Authenticator_userId_fkey FOREIGN KEY (userId) REFERENCES User (id) ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
);

-- CreateIndex
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX Authenticator_credentialID_key ON Authenticator(credentialID);
```

  </Accordion>
  </Accordions>

#### Edge Compatibility

If you're using `next-auth` with Next.js and a proxy (or middleware in older versions), you should ensure that your database client of choice is "edge compatible" when using Next.js versions before 16. In Next.js 16+, `proxy.ts` runs on the Node.js runtime, so edge compatibility is no longer a concern. For older versions, check out our [edge compatibility](/guides/edge-compatibility) guide for more details. There is also Prisma specific information in the [Prisma adapter docs](/getting-started/adapters/prisma#edge-compatibility).

### Update Auth.js Configuration

Add the `Passkey` provider to your configuration and make sure you're using a compatible database adapter. You'll also need to explicitly enable the experimental WebAuthn feature.

```ts filename="./auth.ts" {10}
import Passkey from "next-auth/providers/passkey"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client"

const prisma = new PrismaClient()

export default {
  adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  providers: [Passkey],
  experimental: { enableWebAuthn: true },
}
```

If you're using the built-in Auth.js pages, then you are good to go now! Navigating to your `/signin` route should include a "Signin with Passkeys" button now.

### Custom Pages

If you're building a custom signin page, you can leverage the `next-auth/webauthn` `signIn` function to initiate both WebAuthn registration and authentication. Remember, when using the WebAuthn `signIn` function, you'll also need the `@simplewebauth/browser` peer dependency installed.

```ts filename="app/login/page.tsx" {4} /webauthn/
"use client"

import { useSession } from "next-auth/react"
import { signIn } from "next-auth/webauthn"

export default function Login() {
  const { data: session, update, status } = useSession()

  return (
    <div>
      {status === "authenticated" ? (
        <button onClick={() => signIn("passkey", { action: "register" })}>
          Register new Passkey
        </button>
      ) : status === "unauthenticated" ? (
        <button onClick={() => signIn("passkey")}>Sign in with Passkey</button>
      ) : null}
    </div>
  )
}
```

</Steps>

## Options

You can find all of the Passkeys provider options under the [API reference](/reference/core/providers/webauthn#webauthnconfig).

Commit message:

Updates SimpleWebAuthn dependencies to v13
Updates the `@simplewebauthn/browser` and `@simplewebauthn/server` peer dependencies to version 13.2.2 in the WebAuthn and Passkey documentation.

Clarifies the usage of `@simplewebauthn/browser` dependency, emphasizing that it's only required for custom sign-in pages. Also, mentions that types are now exported from browser and server packages.

docs/pages/getting-started/providers/passkey.mdx, after:

import { Callout, Steps } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"
import { Accordion, Accordions } from "@/components/Accordion"

<img align="right" src="/img/providers/passkey.svg" width="128" height="128" />

# Passkey

## Setup

<Callout type="warning">
  The WebAuthn / Passkeys provider is experimental and not yet recommended for
  production use.
</Callout>

The Passkeys provider **requires a database adapter** as well as a new table in that database. Please see the docs page for your adapter for the respective migration details.

Passkeys are currently supported in the following adapters / framework packages.

| Package                   | Minimum Version | Link                                        |
| ------------------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `next-auth`               | `5.0.0-beta.17` |                                             |
| `@auth/sveltekit`         | `1.0.2`         |                                             |
| `@auth/prisma-adapter`    | `1.3.3`         | [Docs](/getting-started/adapters/prisma)    |
| `@auth/unstorage-adapter` | `2.1.0`         | [Docs](/getting-started/adapters/unstorage) |
| `@auth/drizzle-adapter`   | `1.1.1`         | [Docs](/getting-started/adapters/drizzle)   |

<Steps>
### Install peer dependencies

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @simplewebauthn/browser@^13.2.2 @simplewebauthn/server@^13.2.2
```

Auth.js uses [SimpleWebAuthn v13](https://simplewebauthn.dev/docs/packages/server). Both packages are optional peer dependencies: the server package is used for generating and verifying options; the browser package is only required for custom sign-in pages (you can skip it if using the default Auth.js pages). As of v13, types are exported from the browser and server packages (no separate `@simplewebauthn/types`).

### Database Setup

The Passkeys provider requires an additional table called `Authenticator`. Passkeys are now supported in multiple adapters, please see their respective docs pages for more detailed migration steps. We'll use Prisma as an example going forward here, but there is also a raw SQL migration included below.

<Accordions>
<Accordion title="Prisma Schema">

```prisma {18, 54-66}
datasource db {
  provider = "sqlite"
  url      = "file:./dev.db"
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String    @id @default(cuid())
  name          String?
  email         String    @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]
  Authenticator Authenticator[]
}

model Account {
  userId            String
  type              String
  provider          String
  providerAccountId String
  refresh_token     String?
  access_token      String?
  expires_at        Int?
  token_type        String?
  scope             String?
  id_token          String?
  session_state     String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@id([provider, providerAccountId])
}

model Session {
  sessionToken String   @unique
  userId       String
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)
}

model VerificationToken {
  identifier String
  token      String   @unique
  expires    DateTime

  @@id([identifier, token])
}

model Authenticator {
  id                   String  @id @default(cuid())
  credentialID         String  @unique
  userId               String
  providerAccountId    String
  credentialPublicKey  String
  counter              Int
  credentialDeviceType String
  credentialBackedUp   Boolean
  transports           String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)
}
```

  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="SQL Migration">

This migration works for **PostgreSQL** and **SQLite**.

```sql filename="./migration/add-webauthn-authenticator-table-postgres.sql"
-- CreateTable
CREATE TABLE "Authenticator" (
    "id" TEXT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
    "credentialID" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "userId" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "providerAccountId" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "credentialPublicKey" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "counter" INTEGER NOT NULL,
    "credentialDeviceType" TEXT NOT NULL,
    "credentialBackedUp" BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    "transports" TEXT,
    CONSTRAINT "Authenticator_userId_fkey" FOREIGN KEY ("userId") REFERENCES "User" ("id") ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
);

-- CreateIndex
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX "Authenticator_credentialID_key" ON "Authenticator"("credentialID");
```

This migration works for **MySQL** / **MariaDB**.

```sql filename="./migration/add-webauthn-authenticator-table-mysql.sql"
-- CreateTable
CREATE TABLE Authenticator (
    id varchar(255) NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
    credentialID TEXT NOT NULL,
    userId varchar(255) NOT NULL,
    providerAccountId TEXT NOT NULL,
    credentialPublicKey TEXT NOT NULL,
    counter INTEGER NOT NULL,
    credentialDeviceType TEXT NOT NULL,
    credentialBackedUp BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    transports TEXT,
    CONSTRAINT Authenticator_userId_fkey FOREIGN KEY (userId) REFERENCES User (id) ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
);

-- CreateIndex
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX Authenticator_credentialID_key ON Authenticator(credentialID);
```

  </Accordion>
  </Accordions>

#### Edge Compatibility

If you're using `next-auth` with Next.js and a proxy (or middleware in older versions), you should ensure that your database client of choice is "edge compatible" when using Next.js versions before 16. In Next.js 16+, `proxy.ts` runs on the Node.js runtime, so edge compatibility is no longer a concern. For older versions, check out our [edge compatibility](/guides/edge-compatibility) guide for more details. There is also Prisma specific information in the [Prisma adapter docs](/getting-started/adapters/prisma#edge-compatibility).

### Update Auth.js Configuration

Add the `Passkey` provider to your configuration and make sure you're using a compatible database adapter. You'll also need to explicitly enable the experimental WebAuthn feature.

```ts filename="./auth.ts" {10}
import Passkey from "next-auth/providers/passkey"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client"

const prisma = new PrismaClient()

export default {
  adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  providers: [Passkey],
  experimental: { enableWebAuthn: true },
}
```

If you're using the built-in Auth.js pages, then you are good to go now! Navigating to your `/signin` route should include a "Signin with Passkeys" button now.

### Custom Pages

If you're building a custom sign-in page, you can leverage the `next-auth/webauthn` `signIn` function to initiate both WebAuthn registration and authentication. Remember, when using the WebAuthn `signIn` function, you'll also need the `@simplewebauthn/browser` peer dependency installed.

```ts filename="app/login/page.tsx" {4} /webauthn/
"use client"

import { useSession } from "next-auth/react"
import { signIn } from "next-auth/webauthn"

export default function Login() {
  const { data: session, update, status } = useSession()

  return (
    <div>
      {status === "authenticated" ? (
        <button onClick={() => signIn("passkey", { action: "register" })}>
          Register new Passkey
        </button>
      ) : status === "unauthenticated" ? (
        <button onClick={() => signIn("passkey")}>Sign in with Passkey</button>
      ) : null}
    </div>
  )
}
```

</Steps>

## Options

You can find all of the Passkeys provider options under the [API reference](/reference/core/providers/webauthn#webauthnconfig).
