docs/pages/getting-started/integrations.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"

# Integrations

Here are the state of planned and released integrations under the `@auth/*` and `@next-auth/*` scope, as well as `next-auth`. It also includes community created and maintained integrations. Integrations listed as "Planned" are something we'd love help with! See the [help needed](#help-needed) section below.

<Callout>
  Is your framework not supported? You can easily contribute by creating a
  framework integration by [following this
  guide](/guides/creating-a-framework-integration).
</Callout>

<Callout type="info">
  Note that because of preventing breaking changes on package imports,
  `next-auth` is the only framework package which is not named following the
  `@auth/*` convention. This library initially was born as `next-auth` but [over
  the years has evolved](/contributors#history) to be framework agnostic.
</Callout>

| Feature                | Status                                                                           |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `next-auth`            | Released (stable) - [docs](https://nextjs.authjs.dev)                            |
| `@auth/*-adapter`      | Released (stable). Fully compatible with `next-auth` and all `@auth/*` libraries |
| `@next-auth/*-adapter` | Maintenance has stopped. Update to `@auth/*-adapter`                             |
| `@auth/core`           | Released (experimental)                                                          |
| `@auth/sveltekit`      | Released (experimental) - [docs](https://sveltekit.authjs.dev)                   |
| `@auth/express`        | Released (experimental) - [docs](https://express.authjs.dev)                     |
| `@auth/solid-start`    | Released (experimental)                                                          |
| `@auth/remix`          | Planned                                                                          |
| `@auth/astro`          | Planned                                                                          |
| `@auth/nuxt`           | Planned                                                                          |

## Community Integrations

The community has published some great integrations / client packages for various frameworks and
libraries. We'd love to make some packages official in the future, if you're responsible for any of
them and are interested in collaborating, please do not hesitate to reach out!

| Client     | Links                                                                                       |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Hono.js    | [Auth.js middleware](https://github.com/honojs/middleware/tree/main/packages/auth-js)       |
| Rakkas     | [Auth.js Integration Example](https://github.com/rakkasjs/rakkasjs/tree/main/examples/auth) |
| Qwik       | [Auth.js Integration](https://qwik.builder.io/docs/integrations/authjs/)                    |
| SolidStart | [`@solid-mediakit/auth`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@solid-mediakit/auth)                |
| Astro      | [`auth-astro`](https://github.com/nowaythatworked/auth-astro)                               |
| Nuxt       | [`@sidebase/nuxt-auth`](https://sidebase.io/nuxt-auth/)                                     |
| Nuxt       | [`@hebilicious/authjs-nuxt`](https://authjs-nuxt.pages.dev/)                                |

### Help needed

In case you are a maintainer of a package that uses `@auth/core`, feel free to [reach out to
Balázs](https://twitter.com/balazsorban44) or [info@authjs.dev](mailto:info@authjs.dev), if you want to collaborate on making it an official package, maintained in our repository. If you are interested in bringing `@auth/core` support to your favorite framework, we would love to hear from you!

Commit message:

docs: improve hero, integrations, mention Qwik

docs/pages/getting-started/integrations.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"

# Integrations

Here are the state of planned and released integrations under the `@auth/*` and `@next-auth/*` scope, as well as `next-auth`. It also includes community created and maintained integrations. Integrations listed as "Planned" are something we'd love help with! See the [help needed](#help-needed) section below.

<Callout>
  Is your framework not supported? You can easily contribute by creating a
  framework integration by [following this
  guide](/guides/creating-a-framework-integration).
</Callout>

<Callout type="info">
  Note that because of preventing breaking changes on package imports,
  `next-auth` is the only framework package which is not named following the
  `@auth/*` convention. This library initially was born as `next-auth` but [over
  the years has evolved](/contributors#history) to be framework agnostic.
</Callout>

Framework and database integrations are all based on the [Auth.js Core library](/reference/core). In most cases, you will not interact with this package directly, as it is intended for library authors.

| Frameworks                            | Status                                                                                    |
| ------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| NextAuth.js (`next-auth`)             | [v5 (beta)](https://nextjs.authjs.dev), [v4 (maintenance mode)](https://next-auth.js.org) |
| Astro Auth (`@auth/astro`)            | [Open PR](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/pull/9856)                              |
| Express Auth (`@auth/express`)        | [Experimental Release](https://express.authjs.dev)                                        |
| Nuxt Auth (`@auth/nuxt`)              | [Open PR](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/pull/10684)                             |
| Qwik Auth (`@auth/qwik`)              | [Released](https://qwik.authjs.dev)                                                       |
| Remix Auth (`@auth/remix`)            | [Open PR](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/pull/6767)                              |
| SolidStart Auth (`@auth/solid-start`) | Experimental Release                                                                      |
| SvelteKit Auth (`@auth/sveltekit`)    | [Experimental Release](https://sveltekit.authjs.dev)                                      |

| Databases              | Status                                                                  |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `@auth/*-adapter`      | Released. Fully compatible with `next-auth` and all `@auth/*` libraries |
| `@next-auth/*-adapter` | Maintenance has stopped. Update to `@auth/*-adapter`                    |

## Community Integrations

The community has published some great integrations / client packages for various frameworks and
libraries. We'd love to make some packages official in the future, if you're responsible for any of
them and are interested in collaborating, please do not hesitate to reach out!

| Client     | Links                                                                                       |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Hono.js    | [Auth.js middleware](https://github.com/honojs/middleware/tree/main/packages/auth-js)       |
| Rakkas     | [Auth.js Integration Example](https://github.com/rakkasjs/rakkasjs/tree/main/examples/auth) |
| SolidStart | [`@solid-mediakit/auth`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@solid-mediakit/auth)                |
| Astro      | [`auth-astro`](https://github.com/nowaythatworked/auth-astro)                               |
| Nuxt       | [`@sidebase/nuxt-auth`](https://sidebase.io/nuxt-auth/)                                     |
| Nuxt       | [`@hebilicious/authjs-nuxt`](https://authjs-nuxt.pages.dev/)                                |

### Help needed

In case you are a maintainer of a package that uses `@auth/core`, feel free to [reach out to
Balázs](https://twitter.com/balazsorban44) or [info@authjs.dev](mailto:info@authjs.dev), if you want to collaborate on making it an official package, maintained in our repository. If you are interested in bringing `@auth/core` support to your favorite framework, we would love to hear from you!
