docs/pages/getting-started/adapters/dynamodb.mdx, before:

---
title: DynamoDB
---

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"
import { Accordion, Accordions } from "@/components/Accordion"

<img align="right" src="/img/adapters/dynamodb.svg" width="64" height="64" />

# DynamoDB Adapter

## Resources

- [DynamoDB documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Introduction.html)

## Setup

### Installation

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @auth/dynamodb-adapter @aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb @aws-sdk/client-dynamodb
```

### Environment Variables

```sh
AUTH_DYNAMODB_ID=accessKey
AUTH_DYNAMODB_SECRET=secretKey
AUTH_DYNAMODB_REGION=eu-west-1
```

### Configuration

You need to pass `DynamoDBDocument` client from the modular [`aws-sdk`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v3/developer-guide/dynamodb-example-dynamodb-utilities.html) v3 to the adapter.
The default table name is `next-auth`, but you can customise that by passing `{ tableName: 'your-table-name' }` as the second parameter in the adapter.

<Code>
<Code.Next>

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import { DynamoDB, DynamoDBClientConfig } from "@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBDocument } from "@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBAdapter } from "@auth/dynamodb-adapter"

const config: DynamoDBClientConfig = {
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_SECRET,
  },
  region: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_REGION,
}

const client = DynamoDBDocument.from(new DynamoDB(config), {
  marshallOptions: {
    convertEmptyValues: true,
    removeUndefinedValues: true,
    convertClassInstanceToMap: true,
  },
})

export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  providers: []
  adapter: DynamoDBAdapter(client),
})
```

</Code.Next>
<Code.Qwik>

```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import { DynamoDB, DynamoDBClientConfig } from "@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBDocument } from "@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBAdapter } from "@auth/dynamodb-adapter"

const config: DynamoDBClientConfig = {
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: import.meta.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_ID,
    secretAccessKey: import.meta.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_SECRET,
  },
  region: import.meta.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_REGION,
}

const client = DynamoDBDocument.from(new DynamoDB(config), {
  marshallOptions: {
    convertEmptyValues: true,
    removeUndefinedValues: true,
    convertClassInstanceToMap: true,
  },
})

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [],
    adapter: DynamoDBAdapter(client),
  })
)
```

</Code.Qwik>
<Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="./src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import { DynamoDB, DynamoDBClientConfig } from "@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBDocument } from "@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBAdapter } from "@auth/dynamodb-adapter"

const config: DynamoDBClientConfig = {
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_SECRET,
  },
  region: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_REGION,
}

const client = DynamoDBDocument.from(new DynamoDB(config), {
  marshallOptions: {
    convertEmptyValues: true,
    removeUndefinedValues: true,
    convertClassInstanceToMap: true,
  },
})

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  providers: []
  adapter: DynamoDBAdapter(client),
})
```

</Code.Svelte>
<Code.Express>

```ts filename="./src/routes/auth.route.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import { DynamoDB, DynamoDBClientConfig } from "@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBDocument } from "@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBAdapter } from "@auth/dynamodb-adapter"

const app = express()

const config: DynamoDBClientConfig = {
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_SECRET,
  },
  region: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_REGION,
}

const client = DynamoDBDocument.from(new DynamoDB(config), {
  marshallOptions: {
    convertEmptyValues: true,
    removeUndefinedValues: true,
    convertClassInstanceToMap: true,
  },
})

app.set("trust proxy", true)
app.use(
  "/auth/*",
  ExpressAuth({
    providers: []
    adapter: DynamoDBAdapter(client),
  })
)
```

</Code.Express>
</Code>

### AWS Credentials

<Callout type="info">
  Always follow the **principle of least privilege** when giving access to AWS
  services/resources -> identities should only be permitted to perform the
  smallest set of actions necessary to fulfill a specific task.
</Callout>

1. Open the [AWS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) and go to "IAM", then "Users".
2. Create a new user. The purpose of this user is to give programmatic access to DynamoDB.
3. Create an Access Key and then copy Key ID and Secret to your `.env`/`.env.local` file.
4. Select "Add Permission" and "Create Inline Policy".
5. Copy the JSON below into the JSON input and replace `region`, `account_id` and `table_name` with your values.

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "DynamoDBAccess",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "dynamodb:BatchGetItem",
        "dynamodb:BatchWriteItem",
        "dynamodb:Describe*",
        "dynamodb:List*",
        "dynamodb:PutItem",
        "dynamodb:DeleteItem",
        "dynamodb:GetItem",
        "dynamodb:Scan",
        "dynamodb:Query",
        "dynamodb:UpdateItem"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:dynamodb:{region}:{account_id}:table/{table_name}",
        "arn:aws:dynamodb:{region}:{account_id}:table/{table_name}/index/GSI1"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Advanced usage

### IaC Templates

Below are some infrastructure-as-code templates for popular providers to help you spin up DynamoDB.

<Accordions>
<Accordion title="CDK">

```js filename="stack.js"
new dynamodb.Table(this, `NextAuthTable`, {
  tableName: "next-auth",
  partitionKey: { name: "pk", type: dynamodb.AttributeType.STRING },
  sortKey: { name: "sk", type: dynamodb.AttributeType.STRING },
  timeToLiveAttribute: "expires",
}).addGlobalSecondaryIndex({
  indexName: "GSI1",
  partitionKey: { name: "GSI1PK", type: dynamodb.AttributeType.STRING },
  sortKey: { name: "GSI1SK", type: dynamodb.AttributeType.STRING },
})
```

</Accordion>
<Accordion title="Cloud Formation">

```yaml filename="cloudformation.yaml"
NextAuthTable:
  Type: "AWS::DynamoDB::Table"
  Properties:
    TableName: next-auth
    AttributeDefinitions:
      - AttributeName: pk
        AttributeType: S
      - AttributeName: sk
        AttributeType: S
      - AttributeName: GSI1PK
        AttributeType: S
      - AttributeName: GSI1SK
        AttributeType: S
    KeySchema:
      - AttributeName: pk
        KeyType: HASH
      - AttributeName: sk
        KeyType: RANGE
    GlobalSecondaryIndexes:
      - IndexName: GSI1
        Projection:
          ProjectionType: ALL
        KeySchema:
          - AttributeName: GSI1PK
            KeyType: HASH
          - AttributeName: GSI1SK
            KeyType: RANGE
    TimeToLiveSpecification:
      AttributeName: expires
      Enabled: true
```

</Accordion>
<Accordion title="Terraform">

```hcl filename="dynamodb.tf"
resource "aws_dynamodb_table" "authjs" {
  name         = "auth-js"
  billing_mode = "PAY_PER_REQUEST" # Alternatively, ON_DEMAND, see https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pricing/
  hash_key     = "pk"
  range_key    = "sk"

  attribute {
    name = "pk"
    type = "S"
  }

  attribute {
    name = "sk"
    type = "S"
  }

  attribute {
    name = "GSI1PK"
    type = "S"
  }

  attribute {
    name = "GSI1SK"
    type = "S"
  }

  global_secondary_index {
    hash_key        = "GSI1PK"
    name            = "GSI1"
    projection_type = "ALL"
    range_key       = "GSI1SK"
  }

  ttl {
    attribute_name = "expires"
    enabled        = true
  }
}
```

</Accordion>
</Accordions>

### Default schema

The table respects the single table design pattern. This has many advantages:

- Only one table to manage, monitor and provision.
- Querying relations is faster than with multi-table schemas (for eg. retrieving all sessions for a user).
- Only one table needs to be replicated if you want to go multi-region.

![DynamoDB Table](https://i.imgur.com/hGZtWDq.png)

By default, the adapter expects a table with a partition key `pk` and a sort key `sk`, as well as a global secondary index named `GSI1` with `GSI1PK` as partition key and `GSI1SK` as sorting key. To automatically delete sessions and verification requests after they expire using [dynamodb TTL](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/TTL.html) you should [enable the TTL](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/time-to-live-ttl-how-to.html) with attribute name `expires`. You can set whatever you want as the table name and the billing method. You can find the full schema in the table structure section below.

### Using a custom schema

You can configure your custom table schema by passing the `options` key to the adapter constructor:

```js filename="./auth.js"
const adapter = DynamoDBAdapter(client, {
  tableName: "custom-table-name",
  partitionKey: "custom-pk",
  sortKey: "custom-sk",
  indexName: "custom-index-name",
  indexPartitionKey: "custom-index-pk",
  indexSortKey: "custom-index-sk",
})
```

Commit message:

<feat>[adapter-dynamodb]: Extend Schema Options
This change allows for more flexibility when customising the schema used
by the DynamoDB adapter. Specifically, it adds the ability to customize:
* **EntityTagName**: The attribute name under which to store the *type* of the entity.
* **EntityTags**: The value to use for each Entity type for the above attribute.
* **EntitySlugs**: The slug which is prepended to each type's partition/sort key.

`EntityTags` and `EntitySlug` are both of type `DynamoDBEntityTypeOptions` and
can take an (optional, string) value for each type of entity the adapter stores:

```
const entityTags: DynamoDBEntityTypeOptions = {
    user: "AUTHUSER",
    account: "ACT",
    session: "SES",
    vt: "VT"
}
```

`EntitySlug` does not format the provided slugs in any way; If users wish
to include a separator such as `#`, they need to include it.

`index.test.ts` and `format.test.ts` were updated to reflect changes required
to the `format.from` function.

`custom_config.test.ts` was added, which runs a full suite of the basic
tests against both the existing customizations _and_ those included in
this PR.

docs/pages/getting-started/adapters/dynamodb.mdx, after:

---
title: DynamoDB
---

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"
import { Accordion, Accordions } from "@/components/Accordion"

<img align="right" src="/img/adapters/dynamodb.svg" width="64" height="64" />

# DynamoDB Adapter

## Resources

- [DynamoDB documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Introduction.html)

## Setup

### Installation

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @auth/dynamodb-adapter @aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb @aws-sdk/client-dynamodb
```

### Environment Variables

```sh
AUTH_DYNAMODB_ID=accessKey
AUTH_DYNAMODB_SECRET=secretKey
AUTH_DYNAMODB_REGION=eu-west-1
```

### Configuration

You need to pass `DynamoDBDocument` client from the modular [`aws-sdk`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v3/developer-guide/dynamodb-example-dynamodb-utilities.html) v3 to the adapter.
The default table name is `next-auth`, but you can customise that by passing `{ tableName: 'your-table-name' }` as the second parameter in the adapter.

<Code>
<Code.Next>

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import { DynamoDB, DynamoDBClientConfig } from "@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBDocument } from "@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBAdapter } from "@auth/dynamodb-adapter"

const config: DynamoDBClientConfig = {
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_SECRET,
  },
  region: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_REGION,
}

const client = DynamoDBDocument.from(new DynamoDB(config), {
  marshallOptions: {
    convertEmptyValues: true,
    removeUndefinedValues: true,
    convertClassInstanceToMap: true,
  },
})

export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  providers: []
  adapter: DynamoDBAdapter(client),
})
```

</Code.Next>
<Code.Qwik>

```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import { DynamoDB, DynamoDBClientConfig } from "@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBDocument } from "@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBAdapter } from "@auth/dynamodb-adapter"

const config: DynamoDBClientConfig = {
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: import.meta.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_ID,
    secretAccessKey: import.meta.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_SECRET,
  },
  region: import.meta.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_REGION,
}

const client = DynamoDBDocument.from(new DynamoDB(config), {
  marshallOptions: {
    convertEmptyValues: true,
    removeUndefinedValues: true,
    convertClassInstanceToMap: true,
  },
})

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [],
    adapter: DynamoDBAdapter(client),
  })
)
```

</Code.Qwik>
<Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="./src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import { DynamoDB, DynamoDBClientConfig } from "@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBDocument } from "@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBAdapter } from "@auth/dynamodb-adapter"

const config: DynamoDBClientConfig = {
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_SECRET,
  },
  region: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_REGION,
}

const client = DynamoDBDocument.from(new DynamoDB(config), {
  marshallOptions: {
    convertEmptyValues: true,
    removeUndefinedValues: true,
    convertClassInstanceToMap: true,
  },
})

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  providers: []
  adapter: DynamoDBAdapter(client),
})
```

</Code.Svelte>
<Code.Express>

```ts filename="./src/routes/auth.route.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import { DynamoDB, DynamoDBClientConfig } from "@aws-sdk/client-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBDocument } from "@aws-sdk/lib-dynamodb"
import { DynamoDBAdapter } from "@auth/dynamodb-adapter"

const app = express()

const config: DynamoDBClientConfig = {
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_SECRET,
  },
  region: process.env.AUTH_DYNAMODB_REGION,
}

const client = DynamoDBDocument.from(new DynamoDB(config), {
  marshallOptions: {
    convertEmptyValues: true,
    removeUndefinedValues: true,
    convertClassInstanceToMap: true,
  },
})

app.set("trust proxy", true)
app.use(
  "/auth/*",
  ExpressAuth({
    providers: []
    adapter: DynamoDBAdapter(client),
  })
)
```

</Code.Express>
</Code>

### AWS Credentials

<Callout type="info">
  Always follow the **principle of least privilege** when giving access to AWS
  services/resources -> identities should only be permitted to perform the
  smallest set of actions necessary to fulfill a specific task.
</Callout>

1. Open the [AWS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) and go to "IAM", then "Users".
2. Create a new user. The purpose of this user is to give programmatic access to DynamoDB.
3. Create an Access Key and then copy Key ID and Secret to your `.env`/`.env.local` file.
4. Select "Add Permission" and "Create Inline Policy".
5. Copy the JSON below into the JSON input and replace `region`, `account_id` and `table_name` with your values.

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "DynamoDBAccess",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "dynamodb:BatchGetItem",
        "dynamodb:BatchWriteItem",
        "dynamodb:Describe*",
        "dynamodb:List*",
        "dynamodb:PutItem",
        "dynamodb:DeleteItem",
        "dynamodb:GetItem",
        "dynamodb:Scan",
        "dynamodb:Query",
        "dynamodb:UpdateItem"
      ],
      "Resource": [
        "arn:aws:dynamodb:{region}:{account_id}:table/{table_name}",
        "arn:aws:dynamodb:{region}:{account_id}:table/{table_name}/index/GSI1"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Advanced usage

### IaC Templates

Below are some infrastructure-as-code templates for popular providers to help you spin up DynamoDB.

<Accordions>
<Accordion title="CDK">

```js filename="stack.js"
new dynamodb.Table(this, `NextAuthTable`, {
  tableName: "next-auth",
  partitionKey: { name: "pk", type: dynamodb.AttributeType.STRING },
  sortKey: { name: "sk", type: dynamodb.AttributeType.STRING },
  timeToLiveAttribute: "expires",
}).addGlobalSecondaryIndex({
  indexName: "GSI1",
  partitionKey: { name: "GSI1PK", type: dynamodb.AttributeType.STRING },
  sortKey: { name: "GSI1SK", type: dynamodb.AttributeType.STRING },
})
```

</Accordion>
<Accordion title="Cloud Formation">

```yaml filename="cloudformation.yaml"
NextAuthTable:
  Type: "AWS::DynamoDB::Table"
  Properties:
    TableName: next-auth
    AttributeDefinitions:
      - AttributeName: pk
        AttributeType: S
      - AttributeName: sk
        AttributeType: S
      - AttributeName: GSI1PK
        AttributeType: S
      - AttributeName: GSI1SK
        AttributeType: S
    KeySchema:
      - AttributeName: pk
        KeyType: HASH
      - AttributeName: sk
        KeyType: RANGE
    GlobalSecondaryIndexes:
      - IndexName: GSI1
        Projection:
          ProjectionType: ALL
        KeySchema:
          - AttributeName: GSI1PK
            KeyType: HASH
          - AttributeName: GSI1SK
            KeyType: RANGE
    TimeToLiveSpecification:
      AttributeName: expires
      Enabled: true
```

</Accordion>
<Accordion title="Terraform">

```hcl filename="dynamodb.tf"
resource "aws_dynamodb_table" "authjs" {
  name         = "auth-js"
  billing_mode = "PAY_PER_REQUEST" # Alternatively, ON_DEMAND, see https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pricing/
  hash_key     = "pk"
  range_key    = "sk"

  attribute {
    name = "pk"
    type = "S"
  }

  attribute {
    name = "sk"
    type = "S"
  }

  attribute {
    name = "GSI1PK"
    type = "S"
  }

  attribute {
    name = "GSI1SK"
    type = "S"
  }

  global_secondary_index {
    hash_key        = "GSI1PK"
    name            = "GSI1"
    projection_type = "ALL"
    range_key       = "GSI1SK"
  }

  ttl {
    attribute_name = "expires"
    enabled        = true
  }
}
```

</Accordion>
</Accordions>

### Default schema

The table respects the single table design pattern. This has many advantages:

- Only one table to manage, monitor and provision.
- Querying relations is faster than with multi-table schemas (for eg. retrieving all sessions for a user).
- Only one table needs to be replicated if you want to go multi-region.

![DynamoDB Table](https://i.imgur.com/hGZtWDq.png)

By default, the adapter expects a table with a partition key `pk` and a sort key `sk`, as well as a global secondary index named `GSI1` with `GSI1PK` as partition key and `GSI1SK` as sorting key. To automatically delete sessions and verification requests after they expire using [dynamodb TTL](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/TTL.html) you should [enable the TTL](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/time-to-live-ttl-how-to.html) with attribute name `expires`. You can set whatever you want as the table name and the billing method. You can find the full schema in the table structure section below.

### Using a custom schema

You can configure your custom table schema by passing the `options` key to the adapter constructor:

```js filename="./auth.js"
const adapter = DynamoDBAdapter(client, {
  tableName: "custom-table-name",
  partitionKey: "custom-pk",
  sortKey: "custom-sk",
  indexName: "custom-index-name",
  indexPartitionKey: "custom-index-pk",
  indexSortKey: "custom-index-sk",
  entityTagName: "_et,
  entityTags: {
    user: "AUTHUSR",
    account: "ACT",
    session: "SES",
    vt: "V"
  },
  entitySlugs: {
    user: "USR#",
    account: "ACT#",
    session: "SES#",
    vt: "VT#"
  }
})
```

#### entityTagName, entityTags and entitySlugs

These options are intended for integrating AuthJS' schema with an existing entity structure.

_entityTagName_ is the name of the attribute used to determine what type an entity is. This can be omitted unless you need to interact with AuthJS entities from another tool _and_ said tool requires an entity type attribute. For instance, by default [DynamoDBToolbox](https://www.dynamodbtoolbox.com/) uses the `_et` attribute to determine entity type.
_entityTags_ are the type names to use in the `entityTagName` attribute. You may wish to to customise these to:

- Disambiguate between AuthJS entities and existing entities (eg, if you already have an `Account` entity and don't want it confused with AuthJS accounts)
- Ensure your existing model can read these entities (eg, if you're extending an existing `User` model but its type name is `Usr`)
- Save a few bytes (eg, by shortening `SESSION` to `SES`, if you're _really_ trying to tighten your AWS budget)

_entitySlugs_ are the strings prepended onto the partitionKey and sortKey values. These values are appended as-is: there is no default separator (such as `#`). If you want a separator included, add it to the end of each slug value. You may wish to customise these to:

- Ensure your data typing scheme is consistent (eg, you use an underscore as a separator (the default value uses a `#`))
- To disambiguate partition/sort keys for indexes (eg, you already have an entity which prepends `USER#` onto its keys and you don't want queries to retrieve it)
- Again, to save a few bytes (eg, by shortening `SESSION` to `SES`, because Jeffy B already owns enough Yachts)
