docs/pages/getting-started/adapters/kysely.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"

<img align="right" src="/img/adapters/kysely.svg" width="64" height="64" />

# Kysely Adapter

## Resources

- [Kysely documentation](https://kysely.dev/docs)

## Setup

### Installation

```bash npm2yarn
npm install kysely @auth/kysely-adapter
```

### Environment Variables

```sh
DATABASE_HOST=
DATABASE_NAME=
DATABASE_USER=
DATABASE_PASSWORD=
```

### Configuration

This adapter supports the same first party dialects that Kysely (as of v0.24.2) supports: PostgreSQL, MySQL, and SQLite. The examples below use PostgreSQL with the [pg](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg) client.

```bash npm2yarn
npm install pg
npm install --save-dev @types/pg
```

<Code>
<Code.Next>

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import { KyselyAdapter } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"
import { db } from "../../../db"

export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  adapter: KyselyAdapter(db),
  providers: [],
})
```

</Code.Next>
<Code.Qwik>

```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import { KyselyAdapter } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"
import { db } from "../../../db"

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [],
    adapter: KyselyAdapter(db),
  })
)
```

</Code.Qwik>
<Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="./src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import { KyselyAdapter } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"
import { db } from "../../../db"

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  adapter: KyselyAdapter(db),
  providers: [],
})
```

</Code.Svelte>
<Code.Express>

```ts filename="./src/routes/auth.route.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import { KyselyAdapter } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"
import { db } from "../../../db"

const app = express()

app.set("trust proxy", true)
app.use(
  "/auth/*",
  ExpressAuth({
    providers: [],
    adapter: KyselyAdapter(db),
  })
)
```

</Code.Express>
</Code>

Kysely's constructor requires a database interface that contains an entry with an interface for each of your tables. You can define these types manually, or use `kysely-codegen` / `prisma-kysely` to automatically generate them. Check out the default [models](/guides/creating-a-database-adapter) required by Auth.js.

```ts filename="db.ts"
import { PostgresDialect } from "kysely"
import { Pool } from "pg"

// This adapter exports a wrapper of the original `Kysely` class called `KyselyAuth`,
// that can be used to provide additional type-safety.
// While using it isn't required, it is recommended as it will verify
// that the database interface has all the fields that Auth.js expects.
import { KyselyAuth } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"

import type { GeneratedAlways } from "kysely"

interface Database {
  User: {
    id: GeneratedAlways<string>
    name: string | null
    email: string
    emailVerified: Date | null
    image: string | null
  }
  Account: {
    id: GeneratedAlways<string>
    userId: string
    type: string
    provider: string
    providerAccountId: string
    refresh_token: string | null
    access_token: string | null
    expires_at: number | null
    token_type: string | null
    scope: string | null
    id_token: string | null
    session_state: string | null
  }
  Session: {
    id: GeneratedAlways<string>
    userId: string
    sessionToken: string
    expires: Date
  }
  VerificationToken: {
    identifier: string
    token: string
    expires: Date
  }
}

export const db = new KyselyAuth<Database>({
  dialect: new PostgresDialect({
    pool: new Pool({
      host: process.env.DATABASE_HOST,
      database: process.env.DATABASE_NAME,
      user: process.env.DATABASE_USER,
      password: process.env.DATABASE_PASSWORD,
    }),
  }),
})
```

<Callout>
An alternative to manually defining types is generating them from the database schema using [kysely-codegen](https://github.com/RobinBlomberg/kysely-codegen), or from Prisma schemas using [prisma-kysely](https://github.com/valtyr/prisma-kysely). When using generated types with `KyselyAuth`, import `Codegen` and pass it as the second generic arg:

```ts
import type { Codegen } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"
new KyselyAuth<Database, Codegen>()
```

</Callout>

### Schema

```ts filename="db/migrations/001_create_db.ts"
import { Kysely, sql } from "kysely"

export async function up(db: Kysely<any>): Promise<void> {
  await db.schema
    .createTable("User")
    .addColumn("id", "uuid", (col) =>
      col.primaryKey().defaultTo(sql`gen_random_uuid()`)
    )
    .addColumn("name", "text")
    .addColumn("email", "text", (col) => col.unique().notNull())
    .addColumn("emailVerified", "timestamptz")
    .addColumn("image", "text")
    .execute()

  await db.schema
    .createTable("Account")
    .addColumn("id", "uuid", (col) =>
      col.primaryKey().defaultTo(sql`gen_random_uuid()`)
    )
    .addColumn("userId", "uuid", (col) =>
      col.references("User.id").onDelete("cascade").notNull()
    )
    .addColumn("type", "text", (col) => col.notNull())
    .addColumn("provider", "text", (col) => col.notNull())
    .addColumn("providerAccountId", "text", (col) => col.notNull())
    .addColumn("refresh_token", "text")
    .addColumn("access_token", "text")
    .addColumn("expires_at", "bigint")
    .addColumn("token_type", "text")
    .addColumn("scope", "text")
    .addColumn("id_token", "text")
    .addColumn("session_state", "text")
    .execute()

  await db.schema
    .createTable("Session")
    .addColumn("id", "uuid", (col) =>
      col.primaryKey().defaultTo(sql`gen_random_uuid()`)
    )
    .addColumn("userId", "uuid", (col) =>
      col.references("User.id").onDelete("cascade").notNull()
    )
    .addColumn("sessionToken", "text", (col) => col.notNull().unique())
    .addColumn("expires", "timestamptz", (col) => col.notNull())
    .execute()

  await db.schema
    .createTable("VerificationToken")
    .addColumn("identifier", "text", (col) => col.notNull())
    .addColumn("token", "text", (col) => col.notNull().unique())
    .addColumn("expires", "timestamptz", (col) => col.notNull())
    .execute()

  await db.schema
    .createIndex("Account_userId_index")
    .on("Account")
    .column("userId")
    .execute()

  await db.schema
    .createIndex("Session_userId_index")
    .on("Session")
    .column("userId")
    .execute()
}

export async function down(db: Kysely<any>): Promise<void> {
  await db.schema.dropTable("Account").ifExists().execute()
  await db.schema.dropTable("Session").ifExists().execute()
  await db.schema.dropTable("User").ifExists().execute()
  await db.schema.dropTable("VerificationToken").ifExists().execute()
}
```

> This schema is adapted for use in Kysely and is based upon our main [schema](/reference/core/adapters#models).

For more information about creating and running migrations with Kysely, refer to the [Kysely migrations documentation](https://kysely.dev/docs/migrations).

### Naming conventions

If mixed snake_case and camelCase column names is an issue for you and/or your underlying database system, we recommend using Kysely's `CamelCasePlugin` ([see the documentation here](https://kysely-org.github.io/kysely-apidoc/classes/CamelCasePlugin.html)) feature to change the field names. This won't affect NextAuth.js, but will allow you to have consistent casing when using Kysely.

Commit message:

feat: add options object where you can specify a schema
feat: configure a schema for the tables

add docs

docs/pages/getting-started/adapters/kysely.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"

<img align="right" src="/img/adapters/kysely.svg" width="64" height="64" />

# Kysely Adapter

## Resources

- [Kysely documentation](https://kysely.dev/docs)

## Setup

### Installation

```bash npm2yarn
npm install kysely @auth/kysely-adapter
```

### Environment Variables

```sh
DATABASE_HOST=
DATABASE_NAME=
DATABASE_USER=
DATABASE_PASSWORD=
```

### Configuration

This adapter supports the same first party dialects that Kysely (as of v0.24.2) supports: PostgreSQL, MySQL, and SQLite. The examples below use PostgreSQL with the [pg](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg) client.

```bash npm2yarn
npm install pg
npm install --save-dev @types/pg
```

<Code>
<Code.Next>

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import { KyselyAdapter } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"
import { db } from "../../../db"

export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  adapter: KyselyAdapter(db),
  providers: [],
})
```

</Code.Next>
<Code.Qwik>

```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import { KyselyAdapter } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"
import { db } from "../../../db"

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [],
    adapter: KyselyAdapter(db),
  })
)
```

</Code.Qwik>
<Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="./src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import { KyselyAdapter } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"
import { db } from "../../../db"

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  adapter: KyselyAdapter(db),
  providers: [],
})
```

</Code.Svelte>
<Code.Express>

```ts filename="./src/routes/auth.route.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import { KyselyAdapter } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"
import { db } from "../../../db"

const app = express()

app.set("trust proxy", true)
app.use(
  "/auth/*",
  ExpressAuth({
    providers: [],
    adapter: KyselyAdapter(db),
  })
)
```

</Code.Express>
</Code>

Kysely's constructor requires a database interface that contains an entry with an interface for each of your tables. You can define these types manually, or use `kysely-codegen` / `prisma-kysely` to automatically generate them. Check out the default [models](/guides/creating-a-database-adapter) required by Auth.js.

```ts filename="db.ts"
import { PostgresDialect } from "kysely"
import { Pool } from "pg"

// This adapter exports a wrapper of the original `Kysely` class called `KyselyAuth`,
// that can be used to provide additional type-safety.
// While using it isn't required, it is recommended as it will verify
// that the database interface has all the fields that Auth.js expects.
import { KyselyAuth } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"

import type { GeneratedAlways } from "kysely"

interface Database {
  User: {
    id: GeneratedAlways<string>
    name: string | null
    email: string
    emailVerified: Date | null
    image: string | null
  }
  Account: {
    id: GeneratedAlways<string>
    userId: string
    type: string
    provider: string
    providerAccountId: string
    refresh_token: string | null
    access_token: string | null
    expires_at: number | null
    token_type: string | null
    scope: string | null
    id_token: string | null
    session_state: string | null
  }
  Session: {
    id: GeneratedAlways<string>
    userId: string
    sessionToken: string
    expires: Date
  }
  VerificationToken: {
    identifier: string
    token: string
    expires: Date
  }
}

export const db = new KyselyAuth<Database>({
  dialect: new PostgresDialect({
    pool: new Pool({
      host: process.env.DATABASE_HOST,
      database: process.env.DATABASE_NAME,
      user: process.env.DATABASE_USER,
      password: process.env.DATABASE_PASSWORD,
    }),
  }),
})
```

<Callout>
An alternative to manually defining types is generating them from the database schema using [kysely-codegen](https://github.com/RobinBlomberg/kysely-codegen), or from Prisma schemas using [prisma-kysely](https://github.com/valtyr/prisma-kysely). When using generated types with `KyselyAuth`, import `Codegen` and pass it as the second generic arg:

```ts
import type { Codegen } from "@auth/kysely-adapter"
new KyselyAuth<Database, Codegen>()
```

</Callout>

### Schema

```ts filename="db/migrations/001_create_db.ts"
import { Kysely, sql } from "kysely"

export async function up(db: Kysely<any>): Promise<void> {
  await db.schema
    .createTable("User")
    .addColumn("id", "uuid", (col) =>
      col.primaryKey().defaultTo(sql`gen_random_uuid()`)
    )
    .addColumn("name", "text")
    .addColumn("email", "text", (col) => col.unique().notNull())
    .addColumn("emailVerified", "timestamptz")
    .addColumn("image", "text")
    .execute()

  await db.schema
    .createTable("Account")
    .addColumn("id", "uuid", (col) =>
      col.primaryKey().defaultTo(sql`gen_random_uuid()`)
    )
    .addColumn("userId", "uuid", (col) =>
      col.references("User.id").onDelete("cascade").notNull()
    )
    .addColumn("type", "text", (col) => col.notNull())
    .addColumn("provider", "text", (col) => col.notNull())
    .addColumn("providerAccountId", "text", (col) => col.notNull())
    .addColumn("refresh_token", "text")
    .addColumn("access_token", "text")
    .addColumn("expires_at", "bigint")
    .addColumn("token_type", "text")
    .addColumn("scope", "text")
    .addColumn("id_token", "text")
    .addColumn("session_state", "text")
    .execute()

  await db.schema
    .createTable("Session")
    .addColumn("id", "uuid", (col) =>
      col.primaryKey().defaultTo(sql`gen_random_uuid()`)
    )
    .addColumn("userId", "uuid", (col) =>
      col.references("User.id").onDelete("cascade").notNull()
    )
    .addColumn("sessionToken", "text", (col) => col.notNull().unique())
    .addColumn("expires", "timestamptz", (col) => col.notNull())
    .execute()

  await db.schema
    .createTable("VerificationToken")
    .addColumn("identifier", "text", (col) => col.notNull())
    .addColumn("token", "text", (col) => col.notNull().unique())
    .addColumn("expires", "timestamptz", (col) => col.notNull())
    .execute()

  await db.schema
    .createIndex("Account_userId_index")
    .on("Account")
    .column("userId")
    .execute()

  await db.schema
    .createIndex("Session_userId_index")
    .on("Session")
    .column("userId")
    .execute()
}

export async function down(db: Kysely<any>): Promise<void> {
  await db.schema.dropTable("Account").ifExists().execute()
  await db.schema.dropTable("Session").ifExists().execute()
  await db.schema.dropTable("User").ifExists().execute()
  await db.schema.dropTable("VerificationToken").ifExists().execute()
}
```

> This schema is adapted for use in Kysely and is based upon our main [schema](/reference/core/adapters#models).

For more information about creating and running migrations with Kysely, refer to the [Kysely migrations documentation](https://kysely.dev/docs/migrations).

If you'd prefer organising your tables under a separate schema you can initialise the Kysely adapter as follows:

```
KyselyAdapter(db, { schemaName: "auth" })
```

### Naming conventions

If mixed snake_case and camelCase column names is an issue for you and/or your underlying database system, we recommend using Kysely's `CamelCasePlugin` ([see the documentation here](https://kysely-org.github.io/kysely-apidoc/classes/CamelCasePlugin.html)) feature to change the field names. This won't affect NextAuth.js, but will allow you to have consistent casing when using Kysely.
