docs/pages/getting-started/adapters/prisma.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"
import { Accordion, Accordions } from "@/components/Accordion"

<img align="right" src="/img/adapters/prisma.svg" width="64" height="64" />

# Prisma Adapter

## Resources

- [Prisma documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs)

## Setup

### Installation

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @prisma/client @auth/prisma-adapter
npm install prisma --save-dev
```

### Environment Variables

```sh
DATABASE_URL=postgres://postgres:adminadmin@0.0.0.0:5432/db
```

### Configuration

To improve performance using `Prisma ORM`, we can set up the Prisma instance to ensure only one instance is created throughout the project and then import it from any file as needed. This approach avoids recreating instances of PrismaClient every time it is used. Finally, we can import the Prisma instance from the `auth.ts` file configuration.

```ts filename="prisma.ts"
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client"

const globalForPrisma = globalThis as unknown as { prisma: PrismaClient }

export const prisma = globalForPrisma.prisma || new PrismaClient()

if (process.env.NODE_ENV !== "production") globalForPrisma.prisma = prisma
```

<Callout type="warning">
  We recommend using version `@prisma/client@5.12.0` or above if using
  middleware or any other edge runtime(s). See [edge
  compatibility](#edge-compatibility) below for more information.
</Callout>

<Code>
<Code.Next>

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { prisma } from "@/prisma"

export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  providers: [],
})
```

</Code.Next>
<Code.Qwik>

```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { prisma } from "@/prisma"

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [],
    adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  })
)
```

</Code.Qwik>
<Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="./src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { prisma } from "@/prisma"

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  providers: [],
})
```

</Code.Svelte>
<Code.Express>

```ts filename="./src/routes/auth.route.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { prisma } from "@/prisma"

const app = express()

app.set("trust proxy", true)
app.use(
  "/auth/*",
  ExpressAuth({
    providers: [],
    adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  })
)
```

</Code.Express>
</Code>

### Edge Compatibility

Prisma has shipped edge runtime support for their client in version `5.12.0`. You can read more about it on their [edge documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-client/deployment/edge/overview). This requires specific database drivers and therefore is only compatible with certain database types / hosting providers. Check their [list of supported drivers](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-client/deployment/edge/overview#which-database-drivers-are-edge-compatible) before getting started. You can check out an example Auth.js application with `next-auth` and Prisma on the edge [here](https://github.com/ndom91/authjs-prisma-edge-example).

For more about edge compatibility in general, check out our [edge compatibility guide](/guides/edge-compatibility).

The original database edge-runtime workaround, to split your `auth.ts` configuration into two, will be kept below.

#### Old Edge Workaround

At the moment, Prisma is still working on being fully compatible with edge runtimes like Vercel's. See the issue being tracked [here](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/issues/20560), and Prisma's announcement about early edge support in the `5.9.1` [changelog](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/releases/tag/5.9.0). There are two options to deal with this issue:

- Use the Prisma's [Accelerate](https://pris.ly/d/accelerate) feature
- Follow our [Edge Compatibility](/guides/edge-compatibility) page as the workaround. This uses the `jwt` session strategy and separates the `auth.ts` configuration into two files.

Using Prisma with the `jwt` session strategy and `@prisma/client@5.9.1` or above doesn't require any additional modifications, other than ensuring you don't do any database queries in your middleware.

Since `@prisma/client@5.9.1`, Prisma no longer throws about being incompatible with the edge runtime at instantiation, but at query time. Therefore, it is possible to import it in files being used in your middleware as long as you do not execute any queries in your middleware.

### Schema

You need to use at least Prisma `2.26.0`. Create a schema file at `prisma/schema.prisma` with the following models.

<Accordions>
<Accordion title="PostgreSQL">

```prisma filename="prisma/schema-postgres.prisma"
datasource db {
  provider = "postgresql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String          @id @default(cuid())
  name          String?
  email         String          @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]
  // Optional for WebAuthn support
  Authenticator Authenticator[]

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model Account {
  userId            String
  type              String
  provider          String
  providerAccountId String
  refresh_token     String?
  access_token      String?
  expires_at        Int?
  token_type        String?
  scope             String?
  id_token          String?
  session_state     String?

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@id([provider, providerAccountId])
}

model Session {
  sessionToken String   @unique
  userId       String
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model VerificationToken {
  identifier String
  token      String
  expires    DateTime

  @@id([identifier, token])
}

// Optional for WebAuthn support
model Authenticator {
  credentialID         String  @unique
  userId               String
  providerAccountId    String
  credentialPublicKey  String
  counter              Int
  credentialDeviceType String
  credentialBackedUp   Boolean
  transports           String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@id([userId, credentialID])
}
```

</Accordion>
<Accordion title="MySQL">

```prisma filename="prisma/schema-mysql.prisma"
datasource db {
  provider = "mysql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String          @id @default(cuid())
  name          String?
  username      String?         @unique
  email         String?         @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]
  // Optional for WebAuthn support
  Authenticator Authenticator[]

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model Account {
  id                       String  @id @default(cuid())
  userId                   String  @unique
  type                     String
  provider                 String
  providerAccountId        String
  refresh_token            String? @db.Text
  access_token             String? @db.Text
  expires_at               Int?
  token_type               String?
  scope                    String?
  id_token                 String? @db.Text
  session_state            String?
  refresh_token_expires_in Int?
  user                     User?   @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id])

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt

  @@unique([provider, providerAccountId])
  @@index([userId])
}

model Session {
  id           String   @id @default(cuid())
  sessionToken String   @unique
  userId       String
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id])

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt

  @@index([userId])
}

model VerificationToken {
  identifier String
  token      String
  expires    DateTime

  @@unique([identifier, token])
}

// Optional for WebAuthn support
model Authenticator {
  credentialID         String  @unique
  userId               String
  providerAccountId    String
  credentialPublicKey  String
  counter              Int
  credentialDeviceType String
  credentialBackedUp   Boolean
  transports           String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@id([userId, credentialID])
}
```

<Callout>
  When using the MySQL connector for Prisma, the [Prisma `String`
  type](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/api-reference/prisma-schema-reference#string)
  gets mapped to `varchar(191)` which may not be long enough to store fields
  such as `id_token` in the `Account` model. This can be avoided by explicitly
  using the `Text` type with `@db.Text` as shown for some fields in the example
  above.
</Callout>

</Accordion>
<Accordion title="SQLite">

```prisma filename="prisma/schema-sqlite.prisma"
datasource db {
  provider = "sqlite"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String          @id @default(cuid())
  name          String?
  email         String?         @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]
  // Optional for WebAuthn support
  Authenticator Authenticator[]

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model Account {
  id                String  @id @default(cuid())
  userId            String
  type              String
  provider          String
  providerAccountId String
  refresh_token     String?
  access_token      String?
  expires_at        Int?
  token_type        String?
  scope             String?
  id_token          String?
  session_state     String?

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@unique([provider, providerAccountId])
}

model Session {
  id           String   @id @default(cuid())
  sessionToken String   @unique
  userId       String
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model VerificationToken {
  identifier String
  token      String
  expires    DateTime

  @@unique([identifier, token])
}

// Optional for WebAuthn support
model Authenticator {
  credentialID         String  @unique
  userId               String
  providerAccountId    String
  credentialPublicKey  String
  counter              Int
  credentialDeviceType String
  credentialBackedUp   Boolean
  transports           String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@id([userId, credentialID])
}
```

</Accordion>
<Accordion title="MongoDB">

```prisma filename="prisma/schema-mongodb.prisma"
datasource db {
  provider = "mongodb"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String          @id @default(auto()) @map("_id") @db.ObjectId
  name          String?
  email         String?         @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]
  // Optional for WebAuthn support
  Authenticator Authenticator[]

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model Account {
  id                String  @id @default(auto()) @map("_id") @db.ObjectId
  userId            String  @db.ObjectId
  type              String
  provider          String
  providerAccountId String
  refresh_token     String? @db.String
  access_token      String? @db.String
  expires_at        Int?
  token_type        String?
  scope             String?
  id_token          String? @db.String
  session_state     String?

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@unique([provider, providerAccountId])
}

model Session {
  id           String   @id @default(auto()) @map("_id") @db.ObjectId
  sessionToken String   @unique
  userId       String   @db.ObjectId
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model VerificationToken {
  id         String   @id @default(auto()) @map("_id") @db.ObjectId
  identifier String
  token      String
  expires    DateTime

  @@unique([identifier, token])
}

// Optional for WebAuthn support
model Authenticator {
  credentialID         String  @id @map("_id")
  userId               String  @db.ObjectId
  providerAccountId    String
  credentialPublicKey  String
  counter              Int
  credentialDeviceType String
  credentialBackedUp   Boolean
  transports           String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@unique([userId, credentialID])
}
```

Prisma supports MongoDB, and so does Auth.js. Following the instructions of the [Prisma documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/database-connectors/mongodb) on the MongoDB connector, things to look out for include the following.

1. Make sure that the id fields are mapped correctly

```prisma
id  String  @id @default(auto()) @map("_id") @db.ObjectId
```

2. Use the native database type attributes like `@db.String` and for Id fields, `@db.ObjectId`.

```prisma
user_id            String   @db.ObjectId
refresh_token      String?  @db.String
access_token       String?  @db.String
id_token           String?  @db.String
```

This has all been applied in the above example schema already.

</Accordion>
</Accordions>

### Apply Schema

This will create an SQL migration file and execute it:

```bash npm2yarn
npm exec prisma migrate dev
```

Note that you will need to specify your database connection string in the environment variable `DATABASE_URL`. You can do this by setting it in a `.env` file at the root of your project. Note Prisma doesn't support `.env.local` syntax, it must be named `.env`. For more information, check out their [environment variables docs](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/more/development-environment/environment-variables/using-multiple-env-files).

### Generate Prisma Client

`prisma migrate dev` will also generate the Prisma client, but if you need to generate it again manually you can run the following command.

```bash npm2yarn
npm exec prisma generate
```

### Development Workflow

When you're working on your application and making changes to your database schema, you'll need to
run the migrate command again every time you make changes to the schema in order for Prisma to (1) generate a migration file and apply it to the underlying database and (2) regenerate the Prisma client in your project with the latest types and model methods.

```bash npm2yarn
npm exec prisma migrate dev
```

### Naming Conventions

If mixed `snake_case` and `camelCase` column names is an issue for you and/or your underlying database system, we recommend using Prisma's [`@map()` feature](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema/names-in-underlying-database) to change the field names. This won't affect Auth.js, but will allow you to customize the column names to whichever naming convention you prefer.

For example, moving to `snake_case` and plural table names.

```prisma filename="schema.prisma"
model Account {
  id                 String  @id @default(cuid())
  userId             String  @map("user_id")
  type               String
  provider           String
  providerAccountId  String  @map("provider_account_id")
  refresh_token      String? @db.Text
  access_token       String? @db.Text
  expires_at         Int?
  token_type         String?
  scope              String?
  id_token           String? @db.Text
  session_state      String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@unique([provider, providerAccountId])
  @@map("accounts")
}

model Session {
  id           String   @id @default(cuid())
  sessionToken String   @unique @map("session_token")
  userId       String   @map("user_id")
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@map("sessions")
}

model User {
  id            String    @id @default(cuid())
  name          String?
  email         String?   @unique
  emailVerified DateTime? @map("email_verified")
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]

  @@map("users")
}

model VerificationToken {
  identifier String
  token      String
  expires    DateTime

  @@unique([identifier, token])
  @@map("verificationtokens")
}
```

Commit message:

chore(docs): add initialization section for prisma-adapter (#11658)
* chore(docs): add initialization section for prisma-adapter

* chore: add line-spacing

* chore: add line-spacing for installers

* chore(docs): update description for prisma set up in env

docs/pages/getting-started/adapters/prisma.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"
import { Accordion, Accordions } from "@/components/Accordion"

<img align="right" src="/img/adapters/prisma.svg" width="64" height="64" />

# Prisma Adapter

## Resources

- [Prisma documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs)

## Setup

### Installation

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @prisma/client @auth/prisma-adapter
npm install prisma --save-dev
```

### Environment Variables

Prisma needs to set up the environment variable to establish a connection with your database and retrieve data. Prisma requires the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to create the connection. For more information, read the [docs](https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started/setup-prisma/start-from-scratch/relational-databases/connect-your-database-typescript-postgresql).

```sh
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://USER:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/DATABASE?schema=SCHEMA
```

### Configuration

To improve performance using `Prisma ORM`, we can set up the Prisma instance to ensure only one instance is created throughout the project and then import it from any file as needed. This approach avoids recreating instances of PrismaClient every time it is used. Finally, we can import the Prisma instance from the `auth.ts` file configuration.

```ts filename="prisma.ts"
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client"

const globalForPrisma = globalThis as unknown as { prisma: PrismaClient }

export const prisma = globalForPrisma.prisma || new PrismaClient()

if (process.env.NODE_ENV !== "production") globalForPrisma.prisma = prisma
```

<Callout type="warning">
  We recommend using version `@prisma/client@5.12.0` or above if using
  middleware or any other edge runtime(s). See [edge
  compatibility](#edge-compatibility) below for more information.
</Callout>

<Code>
<Code.Next>

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { prisma } from "@/prisma"

export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  providers: [],
})
```

</Code.Next>
<Code.Qwik>

```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { prisma } from "@/prisma"

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [],
    adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  })
)
```

</Code.Qwik>
<Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="./src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { prisma } from "@/prisma"

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  providers: [],
})
```

</Code.Svelte>
<Code.Express>

```ts filename="./src/routes/auth.route.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import { PrismaAdapter } from "@auth/prisma-adapter"
import { prisma } from "@/prisma"

const app = express()

app.set("trust proxy", true)
app.use(
  "/auth/*",
  ExpressAuth({
    providers: [],
    adapter: PrismaAdapter(prisma),
  })
)
```

</Code.Express>
</Code>

### Edge Compatibility

Prisma has shipped edge runtime support for their client in version `5.12.0`. You can read more about it on their [edge documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-client/deployment/edge/overview). This requires specific database drivers and therefore is only compatible with certain database types / hosting providers. Check their [list of supported drivers](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-client/deployment/edge/overview#which-database-drivers-are-edge-compatible) before getting started. You can check out an example Auth.js application with `next-auth` and Prisma on the edge [here](https://github.com/ndom91/authjs-prisma-edge-example).

For more about edge compatibility in general, check out our [edge compatibility guide](/guides/edge-compatibility).

The original database edge-runtime workaround, to split your `auth.ts` configuration into two, will be kept below.

#### Old Edge Workaround

At the moment, Prisma is still working on being fully compatible with edge runtimes like Vercel's. See the issue being tracked [here](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/issues/20560), and Prisma's announcement about early edge support in the `5.9.1` [changelog](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/releases/tag/5.9.0). There are two options to deal with this issue:

- Use the Prisma's [Accelerate](https://pris.ly/d/accelerate) feature
- Follow our [Edge Compatibility](/guides/edge-compatibility) page as the workaround. This uses the `jwt` session strategy and separates the `auth.ts` configuration into two files.

Using Prisma with the `jwt` session strategy and `@prisma/client@5.9.1` or above doesn't require any additional modifications, other than ensuring you don't do any database queries in your middleware.

Since `@prisma/client@5.9.1`, Prisma no longer throws about being incompatible with the edge runtime at instantiation, but at query time. Therefore, it is possible to import it in files being used in your middleware as long as you do not execute any queries in your middleware.

### Schema

You need to use at least Prisma `2.26.0`. Create a schema file at `prisma/schema.prisma` with the following models.

<Accordions>
<Accordion title="PostgreSQL">

```prisma filename="prisma/schema-postgres.prisma"
datasource db {
  provider = "postgresql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String          @id @default(cuid())
  name          String?
  email         String          @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]
  // Optional for WebAuthn support
  Authenticator Authenticator[]

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model Account {
  userId            String
  type              String
  provider          String
  providerAccountId String
  refresh_token     String?
  access_token      String?
  expires_at        Int?
  token_type        String?
  scope             String?
  id_token          String?
  session_state     String?

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@id([provider, providerAccountId])
}

model Session {
  sessionToken String   @unique
  userId       String
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model VerificationToken {
  identifier String
  token      String
  expires    DateTime

  @@id([identifier, token])
}

// Optional for WebAuthn support
model Authenticator {
  credentialID         String  @unique
  userId               String
  providerAccountId    String
  credentialPublicKey  String
  counter              Int
  credentialDeviceType String
  credentialBackedUp   Boolean
  transports           String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@id([userId, credentialID])
}
```

</Accordion>
<Accordion title="MySQL">

```prisma filename="prisma/schema-mysql.prisma"
datasource db {
  provider = "mysql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String          @id @default(cuid())
  name          String?
  username      String?         @unique
  email         String?         @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]
  // Optional for WebAuthn support
  Authenticator Authenticator[]

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model Account {
  id                       String  @id @default(cuid())
  userId                   String  @unique
  type                     String
  provider                 String
  providerAccountId        String
  refresh_token            String? @db.Text
  access_token             String? @db.Text
  expires_at               Int?
  token_type               String?
  scope                    String?
  id_token                 String? @db.Text
  session_state            String?
  refresh_token_expires_in Int?
  user                     User?   @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id])

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt

  @@unique([provider, providerAccountId])
  @@index([userId])
}

model Session {
  id           String   @id @default(cuid())
  sessionToken String   @unique
  userId       String
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id])

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt

  @@index([userId])
}

model VerificationToken {
  identifier String
  token      String
  expires    DateTime

  @@unique([identifier, token])
}

// Optional for WebAuthn support
model Authenticator {
  credentialID         String  @unique
  userId               String
  providerAccountId    String
  credentialPublicKey  String
  counter              Int
  credentialDeviceType String
  credentialBackedUp   Boolean
  transports           String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@id([userId, credentialID])
}
```

<Callout>
  When using the MySQL connector for Prisma, the [Prisma `String`
  type](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/api-reference/prisma-schema-reference#string)
  gets mapped to `varchar(191)` which may not be long enough to store fields
  such as `id_token` in the `Account` model. This can be avoided by explicitly
  using the `Text` type with `@db.Text` as shown for some fields in the example
  above.
</Callout>

</Accordion>
<Accordion title="SQLite">

```prisma filename="prisma/schema-sqlite.prisma"
datasource db {
  provider = "sqlite"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String          @id @default(cuid())
  name          String?
  email         String?         @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]
  // Optional for WebAuthn support
  Authenticator Authenticator[]

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model Account {
  id                String  @id @default(cuid())
  userId            String
  type              String
  provider          String
  providerAccountId String
  refresh_token     String?
  access_token      String?
  expires_at        Int?
  token_type        String?
  scope             String?
  id_token          String?
  session_state     String?

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@unique([provider, providerAccountId])
}

model Session {
  id           String   @id @default(cuid())
  sessionToken String   @unique
  userId       String
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model VerificationToken {
  identifier String
  token      String
  expires    DateTime

  @@unique([identifier, token])
}

// Optional for WebAuthn support
model Authenticator {
  credentialID         String  @unique
  userId               String
  providerAccountId    String
  credentialPublicKey  String
  counter              Int
  credentialDeviceType String
  credentialBackedUp   Boolean
  transports           String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@id([userId, credentialID])
}
```

</Accordion>
<Accordion title="MongoDB">

```prisma filename="prisma/schema-mongodb.prisma"
datasource db {
  provider = "mongodb"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

model User {
  id            String          @id @default(auto()) @map("_id") @db.ObjectId
  name          String?
  email         String?         @unique
  emailVerified DateTime?
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]
  // Optional for WebAuthn support
  Authenticator Authenticator[]

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model Account {
  id                String  @id @default(auto()) @map("_id") @db.ObjectId
  userId            String  @db.ObjectId
  type              String
  provider          String
  providerAccountId String
  refresh_token     String? @db.String
  access_token      String? @db.String
  expires_at        Int?
  token_type        String?
  scope             String?
  id_token          String? @db.String
  session_state     String?

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@unique([provider, providerAccountId])
}

model Session {
  id           String   @id @default(auto()) @map("_id") @db.ObjectId
  sessionToken String   @unique
  userId       String   @db.ObjectId
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  updatedAt DateTime @updatedAt
}

model VerificationToken {
  id         String   @id @default(auto()) @map("_id") @db.ObjectId
  identifier String
  token      String
  expires    DateTime

  @@unique([identifier, token])
}

// Optional for WebAuthn support
model Authenticator {
  credentialID         String  @id @map("_id")
  userId               String  @db.ObjectId
  providerAccountId    String
  credentialPublicKey  String
  counter              Int
  credentialDeviceType String
  credentialBackedUp   Boolean
  transports           String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@unique([userId, credentialID])
}
```

Prisma supports MongoDB, and so does Auth.js. Following the instructions of the [Prisma documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/database-connectors/mongodb) on the MongoDB connector, things to look out for include the following.

1. Make sure that the id fields are mapped correctly

```prisma
id  String  @id @default(auto()) @map("_id") @db.ObjectId
```

2. Use the native database type attributes like `@db.String` and for Id fields, `@db.ObjectId`.

```prisma
user_id            String   @db.ObjectId
refresh_token      String?  @db.String
access_token       String?  @db.String
id_token           String?  @db.String
```

This has all been applied in the above example schema already.

</Accordion>
</Accordions>

### Apply Schema

This will create an SQL migration file and execute it:

```bash npm2yarn
npm exec prisma migrate dev
```

Note that you will need to specify your database connection string in the environment variable `DATABASE_URL`. You can do this by setting it in a `.env` file at the root of your project. Note Prisma doesn't support `.env.local` syntax, it must be named `.env`. For more information, check out their [environment variables docs](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/more/development-environment/environment-variables/using-multiple-env-files).

### Generate Prisma Client

`prisma migrate dev` will also generate the Prisma client, but if you need to generate it again manually you can run the following command.

```bash npm2yarn
npm exec prisma generate
```

### Development Workflow

When you're working on your application and making changes to your database schema, you'll need to
run the migrate command again every time you make changes to the schema in order for Prisma to (1) generate a migration file and apply it to the underlying database and (2) regenerate the Prisma client in your project with the latest types and model methods.

```bash npm2yarn
npm exec prisma migrate dev
```

### Naming Conventions

If mixed `snake_case` and `camelCase` column names is an issue for you and/or your underlying database system, we recommend using Prisma's [`@map()` feature](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/prisma-schema/names-in-underlying-database) to change the field names. This won't affect Auth.js, but will allow you to customize the column names to whichever naming convention you prefer.

For example, moving to `snake_case` and plural table names.

```prisma filename="schema.prisma"
model Account {
  id                 String  @id @default(cuid())
  userId             String  @map("user_id")
  type               String
  provider           String
  providerAccountId  String  @map("provider_account_id")
  refresh_token      String? @db.Text
  access_token       String? @db.Text
  expires_at         Int?
  token_type         String?
  scope              String?
  id_token           String? @db.Text
  session_state      String?

  user User @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@unique([provider, providerAccountId])
  @@map("accounts")
}

model Session {
  id           String   @id @default(cuid())
  sessionToken String   @unique @map("session_token")
  userId       String   @map("user_id")
  expires      DateTime
  user         User     @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)

  @@map("sessions")
}

model User {
  id            String    @id @default(cuid())
  name          String?
  email         String?   @unique
  emailVerified DateTime? @map("email_verified")
  image         String?
  accounts      Account[]
  sessions      Session[]

  @@map("users")
}

model VerificationToken {
  identifier String
  token      String
  expires    DateTime

  @@unique([identifier, token])
  @@map("verificationtokens")
}
```
