docs/pages/getting-started/adapters/supabase.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"

<img align="right" src="/img/adapters/supabase.svg" width="64" height="64" />

# Supabase Adapter

## Resources

- [Supabase documentation](https://supabase.com/docs)

## Setup

### Installation

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @supabase/supabase-js @auth/supabase-adapter
```

### Environment Variables

```sh
SUPABASE_URL
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY
```

### Configuration

<Code>
<Code.Next>

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import { SupabaseAdapter } from "@auth/supabase-adapter"

export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  providers: [],
  adapter: SupabaseAdapter({
    url: process.env.SUPABASE_URL,
    secret: process.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY,
  }),
})
```

</Code.Next>
<Code.Qwik>

```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import { SupabaseAdapter } from "@auth/supabase-adapter"

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [],
    adapter: SupabaseAdapter({
      url: import.meta.env.SUPABASE_URL,
      secret: import.meta.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY,
    }),
  })
)
```

</Code.Qwik>
<Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="./src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import { SupabaseAdapter } from "@auth/supabase-adapter"

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  providers: [],
  adapter: SupabaseAdapter({
    url: process.env.SUPABASE_URL,
    secret: process.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY,
  }),
})
```

</Code.Svelte>
<Code.Express>

```ts filename="./src/routes/auth.route.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import { SupabaseAdapter } from "@auth/supabase-adapter"

const app = express()

app.set("trust proxy", true)
app.use(
  "/auth/*",
  ExpressAuth({
    providers: [],
    adapter: SupabaseAdapter({
      url: process.env.SUPABASE_URL,
      secret: process.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY,
    }),
  })
)
```

</Code.Express>
</Code>

<Callout>
This adapter is developed by the community and not officially maintained or supported by Supabase. It uses the Supabase Database to store user and session data in a separate `next_auth` schema. It is a standalone Auth server that does not interface with Supabase Auth and therefore provides a different feature set.

If you're looking for an officially maintained Auth server with additional features like [built-in email server](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-email#configure-email-settings?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs), [phone auth](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-twilio?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs), and [Multi Factor Authentication (MFA / 2FA)](https://supabase.com/contact/mfa?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs), please use [Supabase Auth](https://supabase.com/auth) with the [Auth Helpers for Next.js](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-helpers/nextjs?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs).

</Callout>

### Schema

Setup your database as described in our main [schema](https://authjs.dev/reference/core/adapters#models), by copying the SQL schema below in the Supabase [SQL Editor](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/sql).

Alternatively you can select the NextAuth Quickstart card on the [SQL Editor page](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/sql), or [create a migration with the Supabase CLI](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/cli/local-development#database-migrations?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs).

```sql
--
-- Name: next_auth; Type: SCHEMA;
--
CREATE SCHEMA next_auth;

GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA next_auth TO service_role;
GRANT ALL ON SCHEMA next_auth TO postgres;

--
-- Create users table
--
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS next_auth.users
(
    id uuid NOT NULL DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
    name text,
    email text,
    "emailVerified" timestamp with time zone,
    image text,
    CONSTRAINT users_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id),
    CONSTRAINT email_unique UNIQUE (email)
);

GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.users TO postgres;
GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.users TO service_role;

--- uid() function to be used in RLS policies
CREATE FUNCTION next_auth.uid() RETURNS uuid
    LANGUAGE sql STABLE
    AS $$
  select
  	coalesce(
		nullif(current_setting('request.jwt.claim.sub', true), ''),
		(nullif(current_setting('request.jwt.claims', true), '')::jsonb ->> 'sub')
	)::uuid
$$;

--
-- Create sessions table
--
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS  next_auth.sessions
(
    id uuid NOT NULL DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
    expires timestamp with time zone NOT NULL,
    "sessionToken" text NOT NULL,
    "userId" uuid,
    CONSTRAINT sessions_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id),
    CONSTRAINT sessionToken_unique UNIQUE ("sessionToken"),
    CONSTRAINT "sessions_userId_fkey" FOREIGN KEY ("userId")
        REFERENCES  next_auth.users (id) MATCH SIMPLE
        ON UPDATE NO ACTION
        ON DELETE CASCADE
);

GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.sessions TO postgres;
GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.sessions TO service_role;

--
-- Create accounts table
--
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS  next_auth.accounts
(
    id uuid NOT NULL DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
    type text NOT NULL,
    provider text NOT NULL,
    "providerAccountId" text NOT NULL,
    refresh_token text,
    access_token text,
    expires_at bigint,
    token_type text,
    scope text,
    id_token text,
    session_state text,
    oauth_token_secret text,
    oauth_token text,
    "userId" uuid,
    CONSTRAINT accounts_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id),
    CONSTRAINT provider_unique UNIQUE (provider, "providerAccountId"),
    CONSTRAINT "accounts_userId_fkey" FOREIGN KEY ("userId")
        REFERENCES  next_auth.users (id) MATCH SIMPLE
        ON UPDATE NO ACTION
        ON DELETE CASCADE
);

GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.accounts TO postgres;
GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.accounts TO service_role;

--
-- Create verification_tokens table
--
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS  next_auth.verification_tokens
(
    identifier text,
    token text,
    expires timestamp with time zone NOT NULL,
    CONSTRAINT verification_tokens_pkey PRIMARY KEY (token),
    CONSTRAINT token_unique UNIQUE (token),
    CONSTRAINT token_identifier_unique UNIQUE (token, identifier)
);

GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.verification_tokens TO postgres;
GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.verification_tokens TO service_role;
```

### Expose the NextAuth schema in Supabase

Expose the `next_auth` schema via the Serverless API in the [API settings](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/settings/api) by adding `next_auth` to the "Exposed schemas" list.

When developing locally add `next_auth` to the `schemas` array in the `config.toml` file in the `supabase` folder that was generated by the [Supabase CLI](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/cli/local-development#initialize-your-project?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs).

## Advanced usage

### Enabling Row Level Security (RLS)

Postgres provides a powerful feature called [Row Level Security (RLS)](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/row-level-security?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs) to limit access to data.

This works by sending a signed JWT to your [Supabase Serverless API](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/api?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs). There is two steps to make this work with NextAuth:

#### Generate the Supabase `access_token` JWT in the session callback

To sign the JWT use the `jsonwebtoken` package:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install jsonwebtoken
```

Using the [session callback](/reference/core/types#session) create the Supabase `access_token` and append it to the `session` object.

To sign the JWT use the Supabase JWT secret which can be found in the [API settings](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/settings/api)

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import { SupabaseAdapter } from "@auth/supabase-adapter"
import jwt from "jsonwebtoken"

// For more information on each option (and a full list of options) go to
// https://authjs.dev/reference/core/types#authconfig
export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  // https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/oauth
  providers: [],
  adapter: SupabaseAdapter({
    url: process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL,
    secret: process.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY,
  }),
  callbacks: {
    async session({ session, user }) {
      const signingSecret = process.env.SUPABASE_JWT_SECRET
      if (signingSecret) {
        const payload = {
          aud: "authenticated",
          exp: Math.floor(new Date(session.expires).getTime() / 1000),
          sub: user.id,
          email: user.email,
          role: "authenticated",
        }
        session.supabaseAccessToken = jwt.sign(payload, signingSecret)
      }
      return session
    },
  },
})
```

#### Inject the Supabase `access_token` JWT into the client

For example, given the following public schema:

```sql
-- Note: This table contains user data. Users should only be able to view and update their own data.
create table users (
  -- UUID from next_auth.users
  id uuid not null primary key,
  name text,
  email text,
  image text,
  constraint "users_id_fkey" foreign key ("id")
        references  next_auth.users (id) match simple
        on update no action
        on delete cascade -- if a user is deleted in NextAuth they will also be deleted in our public table.
);
alter table users enable row level security;
create policy "Can view own user data." on users for select using (next_auth.uid() = id);
create policy "Can update own user data." on users for update using (next_auth.uid() = id);

-- This trigger automatically creates a user entry when a new user signs up via NextAuth.
create function public.handle_new_user()
returns trigger as $$
begin
  insert into public.users (id, name, email, image)
  values (new.id, new.name, new.email, new.image);
  return new;
end;
$$ language plpgsql security definer;
create trigger on_auth_user_created
  after insert on next_auth.users
  for each row execute procedure public.handle_new_user();
```

The `supabaseAccessToken` is now available on the `session` object and can be passed to the supabase-js client. This works in any environment: client-side, server-side (API routes, SSR), as well as in middleware edge functions!

```js
// Use `useSession()` or `unstable_getServerSession()` to get the NextAuth session.

const { supabaseAccessToken } = session

const supabase = createClient(
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL,
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY,
  {
    global: {
      headers: {
        Authorization: `Bearer ${supabaseAccessToken}`,
      },
    },
  }
)
// Now you can query with RLS enabled.
const { data, error } = await supabase.from("users").select("*")
```

### TypeScript

You can pass types that were generated with the Supabase CLI to the Supabase Client to get enhanced type safety and auto-completion.

Creating a new supabase client object:

```ts
import { createClient } from "@supabase/supabase-js"
import { Database } from "../database.types"

const supabase = createClient<Database>()
```

#### Extend the session type with the `supabaseAccessToken`

In order to extend the `session` object with the `supabaseAccessToken` we need to extend the `session` interface in a `types/next-auth.d.ts` file:

```ts filename="types/next-auth.d.ts"
import NextAuth, { type DefaultSession } from "next-auth"

declare module "next-auth" {
  // Returned by `useSession`, `getSession` and received as a prop on the `SessionProvider` React Context
  interface Session {
    // A JWT which can be used as Authorization header with supabase-js for RLS.
    supabaseAccessToken?: string
    user: {
      // The user's postal address
      address: string
    } & DefaultSession["user"]
  }
}
```

Commit message:

feat(supabase): make schema name configurable
- Add `schema` option to SupabaseAdapter configuration
- Allow customization of the schema name used for storing user and session data
- Update documentation to reflect the new configurable schema option

docs/pages/getting-started/adapters/supabase.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components"
import { Code } from "@/components/Code"

<img align="right" src="/img/adapters/supabase.svg" width="64" height="64" />

# Supabase Adapter

## Resources

- [Supabase documentation](https://supabase.com/docs)

## Setup

### Installation

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @supabase/supabase-js @auth/supabase-adapter
```

### Environment Variables

```sh
SUPABASE_URL
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY
```

### Configuration

<Code>
<Code.Next>

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import { SupabaseAdapter } from "@auth/supabase-adapter"

export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  providers: [],
  adapter: SupabaseAdapter({
    url: process.env.SUPABASE_URL,
    secret: process.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY,
    schema: "next_auth"
  }),
})
```

</Code.Next>
<Code.Qwik>

```ts filename="/src/routes/plugin@auth.ts"
import { QwikAuth$ } from "@auth/qwik"
import { SupabaseAdapter } from "@auth/supabase-adapter"

export const { onRequest, useSession, useSignIn, useSignOut } = QwikAuth$(
  () => ({
    providers: [],
    adapter: SupabaseAdapter({
      url: import.meta.env.SUPABASE_URL,
      secret: import.meta.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY,
    }),
  })
)
```

</Code.Qwik>
<Code.Svelte>

```ts filename="./src/auth.ts"
import { SvelteKitAuth } from "@auth/sveltekit"
import { SupabaseAdapter } from "@auth/supabase-adapter"

export const { handle, signIn, signOut } = SvelteKitAuth({
  providers: [],
  adapter: SupabaseAdapter({
    url: process.env.SUPABASE_URL,
    secret: process.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY,
  }),
})
```

</Code.Svelte>
<Code.Express>

```ts filename="./src/routes/auth.route.ts"
import { ExpressAuth } from "@auth/express"
import { SupabaseAdapter } from "@auth/supabase-adapter"

const app = express()

app.set("trust proxy", true)
app.use(
  "/auth/*",
  ExpressAuth({
    providers: [],
    adapter: SupabaseAdapter({
      url: process.env.SUPABASE_URL,
      secret: process.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY,
    }),
  })
)
```

</Code.Express>
</Code>

<Callout>
This adapter is developed by the community and not officially maintained or supported by Supabase. By default, it uses the Supabase Database to store user and session data in a separate `next_auth` schema. You can customize the schema name by setting the `schema` option (e.g. `schema: "public"` to use the public schema). It is a standalone Auth server that does not interface with Supabase Auth and therefore provides a different feature set.

If you're looking for an officially maintained Auth server with additional features like [built-in email server](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-email#configure-email-settings?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs), [phone auth](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-twilio?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs), and [Multi Factor Authentication (MFA / 2FA)](https://supabase.com/contact/mfa?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs), please use [Supabase Auth](https://supabase.com/auth) with the [Auth Helpers for Next.js](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-helpers/nextjs?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs).

</Callout>

### Schema

Setup your database as described in our main [schema](https://authjs.dev/reference/core/adapters#models), by copying the SQL schema below in the Supabase [SQL Editor](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/sql).

Alternatively you can select the NextAuth Quickstart card on the [SQL Editor page](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/sql), or [create a migration with the Supabase CLI](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/cli/local-development#database-migrations?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs).

```sql
--
-- Name: next_auth; Type: SCHEMA;
--
CREATE SCHEMA next_auth;

GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA next_auth TO service_role;
GRANT ALL ON SCHEMA next_auth TO postgres;

--
-- Create users table
--
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS next_auth.users
(
    id uuid NOT NULL DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
    name text,
    email text,
    "emailVerified" timestamp with time zone,
    image text,
    CONSTRAINT users_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id),
    CONSTRAINT email_unique UNIQUE (email)
);

GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.users TO postgres;
GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.users TO service_role;

--- uid() function to be used in RLS policies
CREATE FUNCTION next_auth.uid() RETURNS uuid
    LANGUAGE sql STABLE
    AS $$
  select
  	coalesce(
		nullif(current_setting('request.jwt.claim.sub', true), ''),
		(nullif(current_setting('request.jwt.claims', true), '')::jsonb ->> 'sub')
	)::uuid
$$;

--
-- Create sessions table
--
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS  next_auth.sessions
(
    id uuid NOT NULL DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
    expires timestamp with time zone NOT NULL,
    "sessionToken" text NOT NULL,
    "userId" uuid,
    CONSTRAINT sessions_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id),
    CONSTRAINT sessionToken_unique UNIQUE ("sessionToken"),
    CONSTRAINT "sessions_userId_fkey" FOREIGN KEY ("userId")
        REFERENCES  next_auth.users (id) MATCH SIMPLE
        ON UPDATE NO ACTION
        ON DELETE CASCADE
);

GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.sessions TO postgres;
GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.sessions TO service_role;

--
-- Create accounts table
--
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS  next_auth.accounts
(
    id uuid NOT NULL DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
    type text NOT NULL,
    provider text NOT NULL,
    "providerAccountId" text NOT NULL,
    refresh_token text,
    access_token text,
    expires_at bigint,
    token_type text,
    scope text,
    id_token text,
    session_state text,
    oauth_token_secret text,
    oauth_token text,
    "userId" uuid,
    CONSTRAINT accounts_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id),
    CONSTRAINT provider_unique UNIQUE (provider, "providerAccountId"),
    CONSTRAINT "accounts_userId_fkey" FOREIGN KEY ("userId")
        REFERENCES  next_auth.users (id) MATCH SIMPLE
        ON UPDATE NO ACTION
        ON DELETE CASCADE
);

GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.accounts TO postgres;
GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.accounts TO service_role;

--
-- Create verification_tokens table
--
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS  next_auth.verification_tokens
(
    identifier text,
    token text,
    expires timestamp with time zone NOT NULL,
    CONSTRAINT verification_tokens_pkey PRIMARY KEY (token),
    CONSTRAINT token_unique UNIQUE (token),
    CONSTRAINT token_identifier_unique UNIQUE (token, identifier)
);

GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.verification_tokens TO postgres;
GRANT ALL ON TABLE next_auth.verification_tokens TO service_role;
```

### Expose the NextAuth schema in Supabase

Expose the `next_auth` schema via the Serverless API in the [API settings](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/settings/api) by adding `next_auth` to the "Exposed schemas" list.

When developing locally add `next_auth` to the `schemas` array in the `config.toml` file in the `supabase` folder that was generated by the [Supabase CLI](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/cli/local-development#initialize-your-project?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs).

## Advanced usage

### Enabling Row Level Security (RLS)

Postgres provides a powerful feature called [Row Level Security (RLS)](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/row-level-security?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs) to limit access to data.

This works by sending a signed JWT to your [Supabase Serverless API](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/api?utm_source=authjs-docs&medium=referral&campaign=authjs). There is two steps to make this work with NextAuth:

#### Generate the Supabase `access_token` JWT in the session callback

To sign the JWT use the `jsonwebtoken` package:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install jsonwebtoken
```

Using the [session callback](/reference/core/types#session) create the Supabase `access_token` and append it to the `session` object.

To sign the JWT use the Supabase JWT secret which can be found in the [API settings](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/settings/api)

```ts filename="./auth.ts"
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import { SupabaseAdapter } from "@auth/supabase-adapter"
import jwt from "jsonwebtoken"

// For more information on each option (and a full list of options) go to
// https://authjs.dev/reference/core/types#authconfig
export const { handlers, auth, signIn, signOut } = NextAuth({
  // https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/oauth
  providers: [],
  adapter: SupabaseAdapter({
    url: process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL,
    secret: process.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY,
  }),
  callbacks: {
    async session({ session, user }) {
      const signingSecret = process.env.SUPABASE_JWT_SECRET
      if (signingSecret) {
        const payload = {
          aud: "authenticated",
          exp: Math.floor(new Date(session.expires).getTime() / 1000),
          sub: user.id,
          email: user.email,
          role: "authenticated",
        }
        session.supabaseAccessToken = jwt.sign(payload, signingSecret)
      }
      return session
    },
  },
})
```

#### Inject the Supabase `access_token` JWT into the client

For example, given the following public schema:

```sql
-- Note: This table contains user data. Users should only be able to view and update their own data.
create table users (
  -- UUID from next_auth.users
  id uuid not null primary key,
  name text,
  email text,
  image text,
  constraint "users_id_fkey" foreign key ("id")
        references  next_auth.users (id) match simple
        on update no action
        on delete cascade -- if a user is deleted in NextAuth they will also be deleted in our public table.
);
alter table users enable row level security;
create policy "Can view own user data." on users for select using (next_auth.uid() = id);
create policy "Can update own user data." on users for update using (next_auth.uid() = id);

-- This trigger automatically creates a user entry when a new user signs up via NextAuth.
create function public.handle_new_user()
returns trigger as $$
begin
  insert into public.users (id, name, email, image)
  values (new.id, new.name, new.email, new.image);
  return new;
end;
$$ language plpgsql security definer;
create trigger on_auth_user_created
  after insert on next_auth.users
  for each row execute procedure public.handle_new_user();
```

The `supabaseAccessToken` is now available on the `session` object and can be passed to the supabase-js client. This works in any environment: client-side, server-side (API routes, SSR), as well as in middleware edge functions!

```js
// Use `useSession()` or `unstable_getServerSession()` to get the NextAuth session.

const { supabaseAccessToken } = session

const supabase = createClient(
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL,
  process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY,
  {
    global: {
      headers: {
        Authorization: `Bearer ${supabaseAccessToken}`,
      },
    },
  }
)
// Now you can query with RLS enabled.
const { data, error } = await supabase.from("users").select("*")
```

### TypeScript

You can pass types that were generated with the Supabase CLI to the Supabase Client to get enhanced type safety and auto-completion.

Creating a new supabase client object:

```ts
import { createClient } from "@supabase/supabase-js"
import { Database } from "../database.types"

const supabase = createClient<Database>()
```

#### Extend the session type with the `supabaseAccessToken`

In order to extend the `session` object with the `supabaseAccessToken` we need to extend the `session` interface in a `types/next-auth.d.ts` file:

```ts filename="types/next-auth.d.ts"
import NextAuth, { type DefaultSession } from "next-auth"

declare module "next-auth" {
  // Returned by `useSession`, `getSession` and received as a prop on the `SessionProvider` React Context
  interface Session {
    // A JWT which can be used as Authorization header with supabase-js for RLS.
    supabaseAccessToken?: string
    user: {
      // The user's postal address
      address: string
    } & DefaultSession["user"]
  }
}
```
